---
date: "2020-10-08T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Ginny (May)"
description: "Ginny is trotting down to the beach to have a swim."
keywords:
weight: 150
---

**Ginny**

Ginny is trotting down to the beach to have a swim. It’s a warmish July day; a few clouds in the sky
and a distinct possibly of rain later, so she is making a dash for it before the drizzle
begins. It’s been a bewildering few days and she needs to clear her head. Swimming will be just the
thing: a few laps back and forth while the sea is not too choppy. Her ancient, but still serviceable
sandals give her a bit of purchase against the cobbles of the beach as she makes her way to the
stretch of gritty sand that appears at low tide. Shrugging off her well-worn shorts and t-shirt, she
adjusts the straps of her swimming goggles, tightens her pony tail and wades into the not-so-balmy
water of the English Channel.

Ginny is what you might call an ageing hippy. She doesn’t mind that moniker, since the “ageing” part
is inevitable and the “hippy” part is something that she takes pride in. She was born at just the
right moment: times were changing fast and she was able to take advantage of the new opportunities
being offered.

She is the youngest of four siblings, and, according to her Auntie May, mostly brought herself up
since her mother had her hands full with the twins and the oldest boy, Geoffrey, who were all under
five when she was born. “Like shelling peas,” Auntie May had remarked, her most benevolent version
of Ginny’s mother’s ability to reproduce. “Didn’t know whether she was coming or going, been or gone
by the time you arrived, Virginia.” Ginny always hated the full version of her name until she
encountered the Mrs. Woolf variety at university. By that time it was too late, and “Ginny” had
stuck.

University had been a wonder for Ginny after the drab days of her technical high school. She’d
failed her eleven-plus, and therefore missed out on the prestigious grammar school, but by age
sixteen she had finally hit her stride and was able to switch schools to do her A-levels. Her
parents came from respectable middle-class stock; the usual fare: solid three-bedroomed house in the
suburbs, Church of England, two weeks at the seaside in August, true blue Conservatives. Ginny had
gone against the grain from a young age, and it was clear (at least to Auntie May) that she was not
going to follow in her parents’ footsteps. Or, indeed, in those of her siblings’ size 13
shoes. Geoffrey was the text-book first child: serious, studious, good at Maths and rugby. He sailed
through grammar school and was well on the way to earning himself a first-class degree in
Engineering by the time Ginny was struggling through her O-levels. The twins (Simon and Stephen)
were so alike that they were viewed as one person with two solid British-bulldog bodies. Like their
older brother, they were good at rugby, and the three of them played happily in the family’s large
back garden.

Ginny was always the misfit; as a child she often wondered whether she had been left by the
fairies - a changeling planted in exchange for a stolen baby. Apart from being the only girl, she
was a completely different shape to her brothers: rail-thin, gangly, awkward. Added to this, she was
hopeless at sport, and prone to day-dreaming in Miss Robertson’s maths lessons. Her parents had
despaired of her forgetfulness and lack of attention. School was exhausting, every day she tried her
best, tried not to get sidetracked when she was supposed to be focussed.

Mrs Cunningham’s English classroom was her sanctuary. There, she could sit for hours, elbow-deep in
a story with no-one to scold her. Her parents had heaved a sigh of relief when she was awarded
half-decent O-Level grades that were good enough to get into the grammar school - wincing at the ‘C’
in Maths but pleased with the ‘A’s in English Literature and Language. A-Levels were a stretch, but
the sojourns through Chaucer and Dickens, Austen and Hardy had both delighted and inspired her to go
for a place at University. Her parents were ambivalent about the idea, wondering if she shouldn’t go
for Secretarial College instead, since that would at least offer her guaranteed employment. They
warned her that a degree in English would be a waste of time, but Auntie May advised her to have a
go: “Nothing ventured, nothing gained, Virginia.” Ginny had listened to her aunt (and her own
instincts) and prevailed. Although her chosen university wasn’t exactly top notch, she loved every
moment. And her parents had been wrong: her degree allowed her to be gainfully employed for decades.

From her very first lecture, Ginny was enthralled. A whole semester to learn about the art of
poetry; a whole lecture series on Jane Austen and the Regency period; a whole department of
professors and students who seemed to talk her language. Her tribe. Her people. Added to this was a
chance to think differently about the world, about all the preconceptions, all the notions, the
beliefs and assumptions: the middle-class soup that she had been floating about in since she could
string three words together. Now, everything was up for inspection, for evaluation. Ginny
flourished, and the ungainly teenager learned that her love for literature had merit; it was
something to be valued, not squashed down so far that she choked on it. Her namesake, she with a
room of her own and pockets full of stones, was like a long-lost relative waiting to be
discovered. Auntie May had recommended Virginia Woolf, and sent her a copy of “Mrs Dalloway” when
she learned it was on Ginny’s reading list. Ginny still has the book, now dog-eared and scruffy,
inscribed with Auntie May’s spidery scrawl: “To Virginia: get to know Clarissa; I think you will
like her.” Leaving university with a respectable 2.1 had opened doors into teaching and writing that
have sustained Ginny over the years.

Moving through the water, Ginny is suddenly very weary. Recent events are weighing down her heart
like a house brick duct-taped to her chest. She stops for a moment and treads water, thinking. What
to do? She sighs, and then carries on, counting her strokes until she reaches her allotted number of
laps. As she makes her way slowly back to her neat pile of clothes, she tries to sort out her
feelings, turning them over, inspecting her motives and perspectives as she attempts to unravel the
spaghetti of thoughts in her mind.

The wedding was an eye-opener. More than that. A revelation - and not a good one at that. Ginny has
kept in touch with her nieces and nephews over the years, and was happy for Geoffrey’s daughter when
she got engaged. Ginny has to admit (even now!) a pang of envy, since her own engagement (many moons
ago) had ended in tears.

Geoffrey married later than most, to a woman twelve years his junior, but settled down to a solid
suburban life, much like their parents, and his wife gave birth to a pigeon pair in quick
succession. Their daughter had just married a “project manager” (Ginny has no clue what that means,
but something in finance). The bride - her niece - was a picture in a princess ballgown that seemed
to float up the aisle all by itself, and the church was beautifully decorated with sumptuous floral
displays. A bit ostentatious, Ginny had thought, but each to their own. She had hoped Auntie May
would have been able to attend and keep her company, but she had declined as her, “sciatica was
playing up.”  As Ginny took her seat, she noticed that the groom was somewhat loud and boorish, but
she put that down to pre-wedding nerves. The pair managed to get through their vows, and were
waiting at the steps of the country manor house to greet their guests for the reception. Ginny
noticed the groom’s breath when he grabbed her shoulders and kissed her on both cheeks. She had been
irritated by this presumption, but at the same time realised he’d been three sheets to the wind
before he’d ever said, “I will.” The high spirits had been just that. Whisky, probably.

Ginny was quite taken aback, and unsure how to respond. Now, she wishes she had done something. A
quiet word with Geoffrey, perhaps? The reception unfolded in the traditional way: mediocre food,
supermarket wine, inconsequential chit-chat. Ginny was placed next to one of the groom’s aunts; she
(Ginny found out far too quickly) had recently divorced, and proceeded to complain about her
ex-husband to Ginny in increasingly coarse language. Ginny tried to nod and smile, but found herself
wincing at some of the personal details that she would not have shared with her best friend, let
alone a complete stranger. Finally, she was saved by the best man, who stood to announce the start
of the speeches. Geoffrey made a decent stab at a tribute to his daughter; he clearly found the task
several miles out of his comfort zone, but his words were genuine, and his love and admiration for
his daughter sincere. The groom’s speech, however, was toe-curlingly awful. Aside from the slurred
speech, there were various “nudge-nudge, wink-wink” comments that had the unfortunate bride blushing
for all the wrong reasons, and most of the guests shifting uncomfortably in their seats - including
Geoffrey, who looked pointedly at his watch and patted his daughter’s hand. When it finally ended
(with a borderline sexist quip), Ginny grabbed her handbag, excused herself from the table and
headed for the Ladies, thus avoiding whatever damn fool nonsense the best man’s speech might
involve.

Having composed herself, Ginny had wandered into the gardens to catch a breath of air. She stayed
longer than she had planned, but long enough to see the bride bolting out of the reception room,
tears streaming down her face, followed by her newly-minted husband, apologising and pleading with
her to come back. Ginny watched embarrassed, crouching behind a handy ornamental urn, hoping that
she would not be noticed as a full-blown row ensued. The groom’s pleading turned to remonstration:
his wife had no sense of humour, she was exaggerating everything as usual, she was embarrassing him
in front of his friends. And then he slapped her. The bride froze for a few moments, her eyes
widening. Then slowly, painfully, she made her way back into the reception, her head bowed and her
spirit broken. Ginny stood up; the groom briefly caught her eye, shook his head, and walked back in
after his wife. Ginny was shaken to the core and decided to leave at once. She found her car and
drove home, stifling tears of anger and sorrow as she focused grimly on the road.

Now, Ginny ambles back to her house from the beach enjoying the sea air and letting the breeze dry
her swimsuit. Since the wedding she has not been in contact with her family, other than to send a
rushed “Thank You” card to Geoffrey for the invitation and explaining her sudden departure due to
the onset of a migraine. Ginny has never had a migraine in her life, but it seemed a plausible
excuse for a woman of her age. Ginny knows that she cannot let this one slide. She cannot bear to
think of her niece setting up home with a man who is prone to such anger and violence.

What to do? Ginny cannot think of a course of action that will not cause upheaval and upset for
years to come. She wonders if anyone else saw the slap, or was she the only witness? Does Geoffrey
know? Probably, she reasons. She can hear her brother’s voice making light of the incident, brushing
it under the carpet, putting it down to an excess of alcohol. Should she call her niece directly?
But they are not exactly close, and her niece might interpret Ginny’s concern as meddling by an
interfering old busy-body. None of the options before her seem right.

Except the one to speak to Auntie May.

**May**

May is watering her geraniums. She’s fully aware that red geraniums in clay flowerpots are both
unimaginative and humdrum, but she doesn’t care. Red geraniums will forever remind her of holidays
spent on the Mediterranean: of olives and warm bread, rosy suntans and rough red wine drunk on the
beach until the wee small hours. May loves her little garden at this time of year: the mint and
basil are thriving in the sunshine and the Albertine rose is in full bloom. Absent-mindedly she
picks a couple of heads from the lavender bush and crushes the flowers in her fingers. The fragrance
reminds her of little old ladies: when she was young that’s what every granny smelled of. Now, of
course, she’s a little old biddy herself, picking lavender. She smiles at the thought. Perhaps
she’ll make some lavender shortbread later to have with a cup of tea. “How old granny,” she
thinks. “Damn the tea, I’ll have a Pimm’s”. Yes, she likes that idea. She puts down the watering can
and returns to the kitchen. As she’s rummaging in the fridge for the cucumber (what’s Pimm’s without
cucumber?) her mobile phone rings. She frowns, wondering who might be calling her on this lovely
sunny afternoon. She can’t locate her reading glasses, so the caller ID is a bit of a blur. “Hello?”
she asks. “Oh, Virginia, how lovely to hear from you.”

May sits in the faded deckchair, watching a couple of sparrows make use of her tiny bird bath,
mulling over what she has just heard. She swirls the Pimm’s around her glass, ice-cubes clunking
together as she moves from one thought to another. She’s horrified. Appalled. Virginia is on her way
over, and the two of them will try and work this out. Two heads are better than one and all
that. Still, this is a tricky one that might even be beyond Auntie May’s considerable powers. On one
thing, however, Virginia is absolutely correct: she cannot let this slide, she must speak up.

May has always had a soft spot for Virginia, her oldest sister’s only daughter. There was quite the
gap between May and the rest of her siblings, so she’d always thought of herself as an only child
(born in the month of May, of course). Her mother had suffered through a series of miscarriages
before finally giving birth to May at the age of 41. As Virginia is also a youngest sibling, there
are only twelve years between them. In many ways they are more like sisters than aunt and niece.

Virginia was a unique child, so different from her sturdy, solid brothers and her thoroughly decent
but terribly staid parents. It was like - what was that old television programme? The Munsters?
Yes - that’s it, the one with the perfectly normal girl (a niece?) who was pitied by the rest of the
family for being so odd. That was Virginia. Off to university, much to her mother’s chagrin, where
she’d studied English and discovered all manner of authors and music and culture that made her
parents’ heads spin. Virginia would often call her Auntie May and regale her with her adventures
into everything her parents either disapproved of, had never heard of or were frightened of. May was
delighted: Virginia was a girl after her own heart.

May takes another sip of her Pimm’s (which is somewhat stronger than she had intended, but what the
heck). She wonders what the best course of action might be. Someone will have to speak to
Geoffrey. But Geoffrey, God love him, a) hates confrontation and b) can be an absolute dolt when it
comes to dealing with his daughter. He still thinks of her (in May’s opinion, at any rate) as six
years old, and that everything will be alright after a nice glass of milk and a bed-time story. May
sighs. Poor girl. Been there, done that, bought the T-shirt, as they say. But then, the “that” was a
hot-headed Spanish boyfriend who had dared to lay his hands on her --- and got straight back as good
as he gave. In fact, in May’s recollection, she slapped him twice as hard. She had promised herself
that it would be the first and the last time she would allow herself to be treated like that by any
man, and she had never gone back on that promise. The poor, sad bride. No other option than to leave
him, but how in the world can either May or Virginia persuade her of the certainty that if has hit
her once he will do it again. And again. And again. And afterwards it will be the excuses, the
cover-ups, the guilt and the shame until he…well, May doesn’t want to even contemplate where this
could end. She sighs.

“Hello?” Ginny calls over the back gate. “In the garden, Virginia, come through,” May answers.

**Ginny**

Ginny can feel some of the tension ease off her chest as she sits next to her aunt, having poured
herself a generous Pimm’s. Got to love Auntie May: not only is she wise and clever, but she also
makes a damn fine Pimm’s. Although her deckchairs have seen better days, May is as sharp as a tack
and a gifted listener. Over the decades, Auntie May has always been the one she would confide in
knowing that she would never be judged --- although she had sometimes been scolded for being
completely witless. The disastrous fiancé, to take a case in point.

Auntie May had warned that he might not be as committed to the relationship as she thought, and that
the boy was, “all mouth and no trousers, Virginia.” She had counselled her niece to not rush into
getting married. Ginny was (and is) so grateful that she took her aunt’s advice, since not many
weeks later she had found her errant husband-to-be cuddled up with her flatmate. “Cuddled up” is
putting it politely, thinks Ginny.  She had almost laughed as they sprang apart like a couple of
scalded cats when she walked in, but, in truth, she was devastated. She had turned on her heels, and
left without saying a word. All she could think of was getting to Auntie May. Thankfully, May took
one look at her, ushered her into her home, gave her a huge brandy and allowed her to weep and wail
at the kitchen table until she had no tears left. In fact, it was Auntie May who had called her
fiancé and told him in words of one syllable to take his two-timing hook and sling it. Well,
something like that. Perhaps the language had been a bit more colourful, but the intent was
clear. Ginny had received a remorseful note attached to a huge bunch of roses a couple of days
later. Both went straight in the bin. The engagement ring, however, did not --- she got three hundred
quid for it at a pawnbrokers and went on holiday to Naples with the proceeds. The fiancé may have
been a cheating cad, but he was no cheapskate when it came to jewellery.

Now, however, the predicament they have to wrestle with is much darker and its consequences far more
serious. On the one hand, Ginny reckons, it’s quite simple: her niece must leave her violent
husband. The girl must get out, and soon, no question. On the other hand, such a move will cause
huge upheaval within the family that will continue for years to come. Sides will be taken,
accusations thrown, angry phone calls made. Ginny shudders to think.

**May**

May decides there is no time to pussy-foot around the issue: “So, Virginia, how do we fix this?” May
is not in the habit of backing away from a problem that needs to be met head-on. Over the years she
has found that there are precious few people in this world who are prepared to voice uncomfortable
truths and even less who are prepared to take the flack for it when they do so. Most people would
rather ignore the elephant in the room, even when it is peeing all over the Persian rug. Her nephew,
Geoffrey, is unfortunately one of those people. As a child he would retreat to his bedroom and
listen to his transistor radio if his twin brothers got into a fight. He would back away, blushing
and stammering when the playground bully stole his brothers’ homework or pulled his sister’s
hair. May suspects that Geoffrey knows his son-in-law has a cruel and vicious streak: it’s not that
he is insensitive to what is going on in his family, it’s just that he prefers a quiet life with as
little drama as possible. A cold beer and the test match on tele, rather than a serious conversation
with his wife. Shelling out for an expensive wedding rather than sitting his daughter down and
asking about her fiancé’s anger issues. Now Geoffrey’s sister has to step up. As Virginia talks
through the various options before them, May finds herself getting increasingly irritated and
frustrated. Why should Virginia have to deal with this? Why doesn’t Geoffrey grow a pair and
confront this young man rather than turning a blind eye and allowing his daughter to be put in
danger?

May and Virginia talk until the sun starts to set. Their conversation has run in circles, but in the
end, there is still only one solution. They sit in silence for a while, both contemplating what the
repercussions of their intervention might be. Their thoughts are interrupted by a grating sound
behind them. Coming through the back gate is a desolate young woman, wheeling a suitcase over the
gravel path.
