---
date: "2020-08-01T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Andrew"
description: "Andrew is struggling to get to sleep."
kind: "box"
keywords:
weight: 160
---

*Monday night.*

Andrew is struggling to get to sleep. He's tried sleeping on his side but he can't get comfortable.
He flips his pillow over for the third time and turns on to his back. His feet are too cold. He
wonders if he can be bothered to go and find a pair of socks. His pillow has the consistency of a
house brick so he pummels it a couple of times. Still like a brick. He shifts back on to his side.

"Oh, for Heaven's sake," his wife groans from the other side of the bed, "what is the matter with
you?

"Sorry, Jo, I just can't seem to settle down."

His wife sits up and puts the side light on. "What's going on?"

Andrew heaves himself up on to his elbows. "Long story" he says.

"I've got all night, apparently."

Andrew sighs, and relates his day at school.

Andrew is the Head of English at a common-or-garden comprehensive school. Nothing fancy, but a
respectable secondary that gets decent exam results and has a good reputation in the area. As Head
of English he has responsibility for the Drama department. Again, nothing fancy. A small studio that
was once a classroom, with a few stage lights and black out curtains, plus a dressing room and
storage for costumes - most of which have seen better days. The Drama department has two teachers:
Josie, who is just out of university with a newly-minted PGCE and a lot to learn. But she's keen as
mustard and willing to put in the hard work. Anyone who can engage a class of rowdy Year 9s with
*Macbeth* last thing on a Friday afternoon, and not kill anyone gets Andrew's admiration. Josie's
more senior co-worker, Luke, is a different kettle of fish. Luke was in post before Andrew was given
the job, and, being a pretty good judge of horseflesh, Andrew had clocked Luke straight away. His
opinion hadn't changed over the last school year: too cocky for his own good and slapdash in his
work. Plus, Andrew is never impressed with a teacher who wants to make friends with their students
and, in his view, Luke is far too chummy with the kids for his own good. From time to time, Andrew
likes to drop in, unannounced, into Drama classes - first, to support Josie and make sure she is
getting along okay, and second, to remind Luke that he's watching him.

Today, Andrew had been in his office (read: corner of the English supply cupboard) catching up with
some marking. Having only enough stamina for six of his 'A' Level class' attempts at a literary
analysis of *The Great Gatsby*, he had decided to make himself a coffee and stretch his legs. The
English Department's galley kitchen is next door to the Drama studio, so Andrew could hear Luke
working with a class as he rummaged around the cupboards in search of a packet of Rich Tea biscuits.
One of the girls was rehearsing her lines in the corridor, and Andrew smiled to himself listening to
her butchering several lines of iambic pentameter. No matter - at least she was having a go.

As he made the coffee and was munching on a slightly doughy biscuit, he heard Luke come out to check
up on his student. Peering around the door, he was taken aback to see Luke's arm around the girl's
shoulder as he coached her through part of the speech. Andrew had coughed slightly to signal his
presence, at which point Luke had quickly removed his arm and muttered something about keeping up
the good work before rejoining his class. The girl (Kayla Chapman as it turned out) looked more than
embarrassed and had put her head down into her script, blushing to the roots of her hair.
"Everything OK?" Andrew had asked. "Yes, Sir," muttered Kayla, who was, literally saved by the bell
and scuttled back into the studio. Back in his office, Andrew was both a little shaken, and yet not
surprised by what he had seen. However, the rest of the day was the usual, humdrum classes and admin
work, but Andrew was distracted and found himself replaying the Corridor Incident in his head
several times.

Relating this back to Jo, he feels a bit better. He doesn't like to bring work home too often, but
Jo has been an absolute rock over the years, and he trusts her judgement. Right now, she is looking
at him with her head slightly on one side and her brow furrowed.

"What do you think?" he asks.

"You need to give Luke a piece of your mind, that's what I think. He must know that his kind of
behaviour is completely unacceptable, even if Kayla is over 18."

"That's what I thought. That's why I've scheduled a meeting with him before school tomorrow. That's
why I can't sleep."

"Do your job, Andrew. You can't let Luke get away with this. How is Kayla?"

"I've got a meeting with the Head of 6th Form straight after Luke - I need to ask her to have a word
with Kayla and find out what is going on."

"Good - sounds like you have all your bases covered."

"I hope so." He kisses his wife on the top of her head and turns his light out. Five minutes later
he is sound asleep.

*Tuesday morning*

His meeting with Luke is almost exactly what he was expecting. Luke lays on the charm, makes damn
fool excuses and doesn't believe that he has done anything untoward. Andrew explains in words of one
syllable that he doesn't want to hear excuses he wants an apology. And regret. Neither of which he
gets to his satisfaction. He warns Luke of the severe consequences of his actions, given that Kayla
is only just 18, but it falls on deaf ears. Luke slinks out of the office like a petulant teenager.

Andrew sighs. He knows that he must keep a careful eye on Luke, and ensure that he knows his card is
marked. He spends the next few minutes writing up the incident for his records. He has told Luke
that the matter is not closed, and that he will be monitoring his interactions with students
carefully. Any more issues with Luke's behaviour and he will be taking it up with the Head.

His meeting with the Head of 6th Form is much more productive. Alison Jameson is well suited to her
pastoral role - a fierce mama bear when it comes to her students, especially the girls. She's known
Kayla since Year 9, and is well aware of Luke's reputation as a player. Alison is disturbed by what
Andrew witnessed and assures him that she will be on the lookout. Andrew thanks her for her support:
Heaven help Luke if Alison gets her hands on him, he thinks to himself.

*Friday afternoon.*

The end-of-school bell has finally gone, or rather the buzzy sound that is half fire-alarm, half
giant hornet sound has signalled the end of the week. Andrew is back in his office. He's always
struck by the silence at the end of a school day: the buildings empty in minutes, and suddenly all
the background noise is gone. It's been a long week, but a good one. He's impressed by Josie's
efforts: willing to try different approaches to teaching, but also willing to take Andrew's advice
on board. He's less impressed by Luke, but at least he has kept his head down and stayed out of
trouble. Alison has dropped by a couple of times to update him on Kayla. She's had a couple of chats
with the girl, and it turns out that Kayla has had quite the crush on her Drama teacher for a while.
Alison has given Kayla solid advice, which Kayla seems to have listened to, for the time being at
any rate.

Andrew sits down with a pile of books: his Year 8 class has just completed Rushdie's *Haroun and the
Sea of Stories* and have been writing their responses. He wonders if he has the stamina to complete
marking this lot before he goes home, but he reckons it will be best if he can get this out of the
way so that he can put his feet up at home with a nice glass of red. Malbec, probably. Half way
through, Andrew finds himself both frustrated and in need of a break. His Year 8s haven't enjoyed
the book as much as he'd hoped, and their indifference is reflected in their lacklustre writing. Ah
well, he thinks, you win some, you lose some. He rolls his shoulders and stretches a bit to get
himself more comfortable for Round Two. The second batch are little better than the first, but at
least he has that task out of the way. He piles the books neatly on the shelf and packs up his
things. As he does so he remembers that he has neglected to wash up his lunch items in the kitchen.
Damnit. He refuses to leave that task to the cleaning staff, as they have enough to contend with,
never mind dealing with teachers' dirty dishes.

As he washes up his bits and pieces he thinks about the weekend ahead. Jo will be out at her Pilates
class on Saturday afternoon, which will allow him a couple of hours with last week's Sunday
supplements that he did not have time for. Perhaps he'll go for a long stroll on the coastal path if
the weather is half decent. As he ponders this prospect he hears noises coming from the drama studio
--- furniture being moved about? Probably the cleaner. Then he hears a soft crash - was that a
lighting stand? He goes to investigate. The lights are off, so Andrew fumbles along the wall to turn
the stage lights on. The scene before him is so clich√©d it is almost comical. He wants to laugh, but
his anger soon snuffs that out. Andrew has managed to turn on the stage spotlights, which illuminate
a horrified Luke wrapped around an equally horrified Kayla. For a moment, the soap-opera scene is
frozen. Then Luke and Kayla spring apart, both smoothing down their clothes in an attempt to pretend
nothing was going on.

"Luke. Heads' office. Now. Kayla, come with me," Andrew barks, and escorts Kayla to Alison's office
without saying a word. He's so furious he doesn't trust what might come out of his mouth. Alison
looks over her reading glasses as Andrew directs Kayla to a seat. She puts down her pen and sits
back in her chair.

"I take it I need to ask Kayla's mum to come and pick her up?" she enquires.

"Yes, please, Mrs. Jameson. I need to go to the Head's office, but I will be back shortly."

He turns on his heels and jogs to the Head's office where he finds Luke skulking outside. The Head's
door is open, so Andrew decides not to stand on ceremony and ushers Luke inside. The Head is
somewhat taken aback, but one look on Andrew's face tells him whatever plans he had to leave on time
have just gone out of the window.

"I'll leave you to explain yourself, Luke. I take it you will be able to given an honest account of
your behaviour. If not, I shall certainly be able to fill the Head in on any details you leave out."

Andrew leaves a wretched-looking Luke and a puzzled-looking Head, and goes in search of Alison and
Kayla - his first priority is to ensure that his student is well taken care of and whether police
need to be involved. Luke can fend for himself.

A wretched hour later, Andrew is still in his office writing his report. Kayla's mum has been
remarkably sanguine about the whole affair. He wonders what her reaction will be when the news sinks
in.

There is a tap at the door.

"On your way home?" the Head asks.

"Yup. Enough drama for one day." Pun intended, he thinks.

"What now?"

"Either Luke goes, or I do." Andrew replies, and snaps his briefcase shut.
