---
date: "2020-04-21T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Arthur"
description: "Arthur sits at the end of his bed, tying his shoelaces. He is taking his time."
keywords:
kind: "box"
weight: 80
---

Boxing Day, 1973

Arthur sits at the end of his bed, tying his shoelaces. He is taking his time. He's had a quiet
morning listening to the radio and treating himself to a chapter or two of his new book: a
thoughtful Christmas gift from his nephew - the life of Alexander the Great. But now, he must get
himself ready to go over to his sister's house for Boxing Day. It's a tradition that has been going
on for more years than he cares to remember. Having no children of his own, and living by himself,
he's viewed by his sister as one of the poor "waifs and strays" that she likes to invite over at
Christmas time. It is kind of her, he thinks, and he really should not be so ungrateful, and
yet...well, he'd rather not go. His sister, Sylvia, is a decent enough woman, but her husband,
Colin, is a dreadful bore. He sighs. If he leaves now, he should be there just on 3pm, the time he
as been summoned to arrive. Sylvia has a thing about punctuality, so he will leave in good time, in
order not to offend. He checks himself in the mirror to ensure his tie is straight and that the
"little dab of Brylcream" has done the job. He sighs again. He picks up the gifts he has bought for
his sister and brother-in-law: Antonia Fraser's biography of Oliver Cromwell for Sylvia (a safe
bet), and *An Evening with Mantovani* LP for Colin. He knows that Colin enjoys Mantovani's music
(not Arthur's cup of tea, but horses for courses and all that), so he hopes Colin doesn't have that
particular record. He's made an effort to wrap both gifts, but they both look somewhat inelegant.
He's sure that Sylvia will be displeased by his ham-fisted attempt, and he will no doubt be on the
receiving end of one of her arched eyebrows. No matter. Three hours and it will all be over for
another year. As he collects his car keys and heads for the front door, he wonders why he puts
himself through this gauntlet every year; why he does not find some excuse not to attend? He thinks
of his parents, who would be sad to see how their children have become distant from each other. His
father, he recalls, was none too enamoured with Colin, finding his brash personality tiresome.
Still, he let Sylvia make her choice and then let her be. Arthur has taken the same approach, always
staying in regular touch with his sister, but keeping her at arm's length. He likes his nephew,
Andrew, though. Sylvia and Colin's son has turned into a decent young lad, almost in spite of his
parents. He reminds Arthur of his father: kind and thoughtful, a quiet introvert. He's a little
disappointed that Andrew will not be home today, but he's spending Boxing Day with friends, and
Arthur can understand that. He turns into the cul-de-sac where Sylvia and Colin have a three-bedroom
pseudo-Tudor detached house: far grander and more spacious than his own 1930s bungalow. He gathers
his thoughts, parks the car and rings the door bell.

A tinny, unmelodic version of the Westminster chimes responds. Arthur takes a deep breath and puts
on his best smile. "Oh, there you are," trills Sylvia, air-kissing him on both cheeks, "how lovely
to see you." "Merry Christmas," Arthur replies, and steps into the hall, untangling himself from his
coat and gloves. "Oh, there you are," repeats Colin, shaking Arthurs hand with the enthusiasm of a
new vicar, "Come in, come in, great to see you." Arthur follows the couple into their living room.
"Can I get you a drink?" asks Colin. "A cup of tea would be lovely", Arthur replies, settling
himself on the over-stuffed leather sofa. "Something stronger, surely?" insists Colin, "After all,
it's cocktail-o'clock in some part of the Empire, eh?" Arthur does his best to maintain his
Christmas-cheer smile, and as politely as he can, repeats the request for a cup of tea. "Fine," says
Sylvia, somewhat tersely, and goes to the kitchen to put the kettle on. "So, how are you both?"
Arthur ventures. "Oh, stock market's a disaster. Unions up in arms, of course. And this
three-day-week, well, who's to say where it will end. Heath will have to up his game and no mistake,
can't let the miners call the shots..." Arthur's mind starts to wander as Colin continues his
monologue. He wonders where his cup of tea is, and considers going to help in the kitchen. He
watches the minutes tick by on the brass carriage clock on the mantlepiece, nodding in agreement
from time to time to show he is following along. He's already uncomfortable: he feels himself
sliding gradually off the shiny surface of the sofa, and shifts to gain a better purchase.
Thankfully, Colin's lecture comes to an abrupt end as Sylvia brings in the tea things. "I think
we'll go for an early dinner if that's alright with you, Arthur," says Sylvia, pouring the tea, "I
expect you'll want to be back on the road while there is less traffic." Arthur takes his tea and
mutters agreement. The best way to save face in this situation, he thinks to himself, is to keep the
lower half of it shut. Sylvia scurries back to the kitchen to finish the dinner preparations,
dismissing Arthur's offer of help with a raised eyebrow and a look of puzzlement. Colin continues
his diatribe about all things politics, whilst Arthur focuses on his (delicious!) cup of tea,
planting his feet firmly on the floor to avoid further slippage. As Colin drones on like a
headmaster on Speech Day, Arthur realises that he is rapidly losing purchase. He stands up, gripping
his cup and saucer for dear life, and moves over to the patio doors, feigning interest in the garden
beyond. "Your holly tree is looking quite spectacular, so many berries this year," he gushes, rather
too enthusiastically. Colin looks bemused, but picks up the thread. "Ah, yes, I find that if I give
it a good prune in April they do much better. Berries only form on the female trees, of course, so
there must be a male tree somewhere in the neighbourhood as it has to be close enough for the bees
to pollinate..." Arthur doesn't hear much more of Colin's thoughts on all things Ilex, as he is
desperately thinking of something else to chat about. He is saved by Sylvia, who, ringing her
ceramic dinner bell, chirps, "The meal is on the table."

It's quite the spread: generous slices of cold turkey and ham, mashed potatoes, roast parsnips, peas
and Sylvia's pièce de résistance: salad Niçoise, a bizarre (in Arthur's mind, anyway) combination of
boiled eggs, tomatoes, olives and anchovies. "Now, this is the salad that we had in Malaga in
June,"recalls Colin, "Marvellous little restaurant on the sea front, cheap as chips. Can I tempt you
to a glass of Liebfraumilch?" Colin holds up the bottle of *Blue Nun* like a sporting trophy. "Yes,
thank you Colin, just a small one." Colin ignores this direction and fills Arthur's glass almost to
the brim. Arthur makes no comment, and passes the potatoes. The meal continues without incident.
Colin keeps a running commentary on the superiority of British food compared to Spanish fare,
although he concedes that the salad Niçoise is "not bad at all." Sylvia chats about Andrew's
university studies, (justly) proud of her sons achievements. Arthur listens quietly, sipping his
wine, and nibbling at his food. He declines another helping of turkey, insisting that he would like
to keep a little space for Sylvia's wonderful dessert: a magnificent Black Forest gateau. Sylvia's
creation is in three glorious layers, decorated with whole cherries, cream and grated chocolate.
Arthur is served a generous portion that he devours more greedily than he feels he ought. He scrapes
the last crumbs off his plate, prompting another raised eyebrow from Sylvia. Without speaking, she
cuts him another slice. Colin smiles approvingly, congratulating his wife: "Well, you have outdone
yourself this time, my dear!" Arthur has his mouth full, but nods heartily in agreement. "Anyone for
coffee?" asks Sylvia.

As coffee is served, gifts are exchanged. Arthur feels his face reddening as he hands over the
misshapen packages. In return, Sylvia passes him a beautifully wrapped gift. Colin is clearly
pleased with his LP and puts it on straight away; Mantovani's over-produced strings plink-plunk
wistfully in the background. The Cromwell history is also a hit: Sylvia has not read it, but she
"adores" Antonia Frazer, and kisses Arthur's cheek in thanks. Arthur carefully removes the paper and
ribbon from his gift, to reveal two hard-backed books: *The Rachel Papers* and *The Honorary
Consul*. "I know you love Grahame Greene," Sylvia explains, "and Andrew says that Amis is quite the
up-and-coming author and he thinks you'll like him." Arthur is quite taken aback, genuinely pleased
and grateful, but also beyond surprised that his sister would take such trouble to find him books
that she knows he will enjoy. He finishes his coffee and thanks his hosts for a lovely afternoon,
gathers his belongings, and takes his leave.

He decides to take a longer route home, giving himself time to reflect and collect his thoughts.
Colin, he thinks, is still quite the bore, but he's friendly and welcoming. Not only did Sylvia go
out of her way to provide a delicious and tasty meal, but she also ensured, by checking with her
son, that Arthur's Christmas gift was exactly what would have chosen himself. Perhaps he has been
too harsh on Colin and Sylvia, too quick to judge, too critical in his assessment of their lives?
And perhaps Andrew is the apple that has not fallen that far from the tree, after all.
