---
date: "2019-10-11T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Ben"
description: "Ben sits in his fatherâ€™s study, leafing through a huge ring binder."
keywords:
kind: "box"
weight: 120
---

Ben sits in his father's study, leafing through a huge ring binder. It must be three inches thick,
full of letters and documents that go back ten years. His father's funeral is tomorrow, so he is
spending the day sorting through his father's belongings. Ben is the trustee of David's estate, and
although he is getting support and guidance from his Uncle Peter, he is finding the whole process
both and daunting and depressing. David had died at home, in his sleep, from a stroke. According to
the autopsy it was not survivable; his father would have been dead in moments. Ben is grateful that
his father died whilst he still had all his faculties, although he had been dogged with the usual
aches and pains of old age. 81 is not a bad innings.

David had lived alone for many years since the death of Ben's mum, Valerie. Valerie had never been
in particularly robust health: a rake-thin, mousey-haired wisp of a woman. She had lived quietly in
her husband's shadow until she dropped dead one summer morning at the age of 49, whilst peeling the
potatoes for Sunday lunch. David found her slumped over the kitchen table, with the potato-peeler
still in her hand. Mercifully, Ben had been away at Scout camp at the time, and only learned about
the terrible events on his return. He had not been allowed to attend his mother's funeral (no place
for a child of 14, according to his father), and had sat miserably at home, with only their
next-door neighbour, Daphne, for company and comfort. Daphne had been very kind, he remembers, and
had gave Ben toad-in-the-hole and ice-cream for tea. Ben tries to focus on the task in hand, but is
finding it almost overwhelming. Uncle Peter will be coming by later to help with the clearance, and
Ben is more than grateful, knowing that Peter and David were not especially close. Ben sets the
folder aside, and decides to tackle the living room.

After Valerie's death, David moved from their family home to a much smaller two-bed town house a few
streets away; the living room is modest in size, but it is packed with all manner of detritus that
David has accumulated over the years. David was an avid collector of anything that he thought was a
bargain. No matter if it was broken, had pieces missing or was downright ugly, he had to have it.
David spent every weekend in the summer at car boot sales to feed his hobby. In the winter, it was
the local auction houses that sated his appetite for useless tat. He would pore over the weekly
newspaper small ads deciding on which events to go, circling the likely prospects with a red pen. He
would call Ben to tell him about the treasures he had hunted down, gleeful if he though he had
pulled the wool over a seller's eyes, having bought some curio for a fraction of what it was worth.
Admittedly, he had made a few quid for himself re-selling some items at auction, but mostly the
bric-a-brac ended up on a shelf somewhere in the living room, conservatory or spare bedroom, to
quietly collect dust.

Ben has gathered several cardboard boxes together for the task. All he's managed so far is to label
them: keep, charity shop, recycle and rubbish. He has a mind to throw everything into the "rubbish"
box and be done with it, but feels it his responsibility to do the job properly. Fortunately, the
local council has a half-decent re-cycling facility, and there are two or three charity shops in
town that can make use of some of the stuff. The rest will be left for the house-clearance people to
pick up next week.

He makes a start on the piles of books, which seems like a good place to begin. His father's taste
in fiction is not Ben's cup of tea, but the books are in good condition, so can earn a few pounds
for the charity shop. Some of the paperbacks have seen better days being dog-eared and sun-bleached:
straight into the paper recycling. Next, Ben makes a start on the china cabinet that packed to
overflowing with knick-knacks: cheerful souvenirs that his parents brought back from holidays over
the years; dainty, but mis-matched cups and saucers; willow-patterned dishes and a gaudy ceramic
Buddha. Ben isn't sure what to put on which pile, so he puts the best of the ornaments in the
"charity" boxes and the rest in the rubbish, giving the Buddha a stay of execution.

Next stop is the sideboard that houses his parents' glass collection. Ben takes a deep breath and
opens the doors. He recognises some of the pieces that his mum cherished and used to have on
display: a lead crystal decanter and two brandy glasses. He can't remember these pieces ever being
used - not even at Christmas. He wonders if people ever used decanters, or were they only ever for
display? Digging through the contents, he finds sets of glasses for all manner of drinks: whisky
tumblers and wine goblets, cocktail glasses and champagne flutes. His father could have opened up a
pub with this lot. He decides to keep a couple of the whisky tumblers (much more grown up than the
cheap-and-cheerful ones he owns) and puts the rest into the "charity" box, after ditching the ones
that have been chipped and cracked. As he looks around to decide what to tackle next, there is a
ring on the doorbell: Uncle Peter.

Ben is fond of his father's younger brother, and is very glad to see him. Plus, Uncle Peter has
brought lunch: a selection of dishes from the local Chinese takeaway and a couple of bottles of
beer. Peter and Ben have always got on well: Peter was a sympathetic ear when Ben has been
frustrated or saddened by his father's actions, and has given him useful advice when he had no-one
else to speak to about the vagaries of his father's character. Now David is dead, their conversation
is lighter, less restrained, more direct. As they make their way through the cashew chicken and
egg-fried rice they discuss what to do next. Ben is concerned about the amount of paperwork that
needs sorting, and needs Peter's help to sift through it to see what should be kept, and what needs
to be thrown.

Lunch over, they take their beers into the office and sit down side-by-side at the desk to work out
where to begin. Ben shows Peter the folder he had been taking a look at earlier. The final page is a
short, terse note from the local council, insisting that they will be taking no further action and
will disregard any further correspondence in the matter of the parking places. As Ben and Peter flip
through the documents, they realise this is the last letter in a bitter conflict between David and
the local council in regard to the availability of parking in the street. Ten years worth of letters
that have resulted in absolutely nothing. Ten years worth of fighting for the sake of it, with
precisely zero to show for it. Ben and Peter look at each other in disbelief. "Recycling?" asks Ben.
"Ozymandias", replies Peter.
