---
date: "2018-07-21T11:00:00-08:00"
title: "Brownie"
description: "It is Wednesday evening, and the eager Brownie Guide is making her way down the hill
to the Baptist church hall."
keywords:
kind: "girl"
weight: 20
---

It is Wednesday evening, and the eager Brownie Guide is making her way down the hill to the Baptist
church hall.

<p style="text-align: center;">
❦
</p>

I quite like my Brownie uniform: brown dress, brown beret and yellow cross-over tie. I go on my own
now, since my sisters have both progressed up to Guides. Besides, I am now seven, and perfectly
capable of making the fifteen minute walk by myself. There is only one busy road to cross, by the
pub: "Look right, look left, look right again, all clear? Quick march!" Having been a Brownie for a
year or so, I'm starting to collect triangular proficiency badges: hostess, swimming, safety in the
home, thrift. I'm an Elf, which means I have a little embroidered blue fellow doing his best to leap
from a badge. The Brownie uniform has recently changed: pockets on the skirt of the dress rather
than the chest. My mother has meticulously unpicked the pockets and sewn them on the skirt of my
hand-me-down dress. However, the operation is not as successful as she had hoped, lines of stitches
and lots of little holes are left behind.

The church hall has a very distinctive smell: part floor polish, part damp and mould. In winter, the
ageing radiators find it difficult to keep up, and it is generally dank and a little chilly. Brownie
nights always start with a song and subs: *"We're Brownie Guides, we're Brownie Guides, we're here
to lend a hand..."* We line up to put our threepence worth of coins on the floor in the shape of a
letter, skipping along to the song. Tonight I have a threepenny bit, which I place down carefully.
Usually, Brownies is a routine mixture of games and songs, but tonight is a fancy dress party, a
"Tramps Supper". It is coming up to Bonfire Night, and to celebrate we are having a fancy dress
party in which we all dress as tramps: scruffy clothes and scuffed boots, uncombed hair and grubby
faces. I am looking forward to the baked potatoes and treacle toffee.

We all line up, shuffling and giggling; Brown Owl and Snowy Owl are judges, walking up and down to
choose the winner and runner-up. My mum has come up with a slightly different take on the tramp
theme: she has sewn little patches of material from the rag-bag all over my uniform, just loosely so
that they can be easily unpicked later. (And they are.) I am supposed to be a <span
dir="rtl">"</span>Brownie Tramp" but that explanation doesn\'t seem to convince anyone, least of all
me. I get blank looks and wrinkled brows. The girl who wins really does look like a tramp: grubby
and disheveled, she has glasses and mousy hair, and wears a brown coat, like the grocer's. In her
pocket, she has an old tobacco tin containing several cigarette ends that make me feel a bit queasy.
She shuffles about looking cold and hunched. I stand around feeling awkward and out of place,
wishing that my mother had been less creative and that I had not gone along with her idea. I wish I
looked like all the other little girls, wearing tattered clothes and having a little dirt rubbed in
their cheeks. At the end of the evening everything is tidied away, and we join hands in a circle and
sing our final song:

*Oh Lord, our God*
*Thy children call*
*Grant us thy peace*
*And bless us all*
*Goodnight, Goodnight.*

Afterwards, I wait outside for my dad to pick me up. He's on time. I close the car door carefully
and we drive home in silence. Back home, back in the bedroom I share with my sister, I screw my
Brownie uniform into a tight ball before throwing it indignantly into the laundry basket. My sister
watches, but she doesn't ask, and I don't tell.

> ❦

It is Wednesday evening, and the the woman is on her hands and knees, putting the last brushstrokes
onto the carnival float that she has designed. On Saturday, it will win first prize in the town
gala.

I'm glad of it. I'm getting tired of my sisters' practical jokes at my expense; the latest prank
requires me to retrieve my beret from the garden of a house on the way to Brownies. It is named
"Berry Bank", so my sister flung my beret over the fence, insisting that's where berets went:
"Berry-beret, berry-beret--- ha! ha!" It is wearisome, and not at all funny, and I'm happy to be
walking alone.
