---
date: "2020-01-17T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Cathy"
description: "Wivelsfield, Burgess Hill, Hassocks. Cathy notes the the names of the stations as they go
past."
kind: "box"
keywords:
weight: 50
---

Cathy - with apologies to Walter Benjamin
Wivelsfield, Burgess Hill, Hassocks. Cathy notes the the names of the stations as they go past.
Wivelsfield. What's a Wivel? Is there a whole field of them? Or has the apostrophe been mislaid
along the way and there is a field belonging to a Mr. Wivel on which the station was built? Perhaps
a Mrs. Wivel cut the ribbon to open the ticket office. Wivelsfield, Burgess and Hassocks. That would
make a good name for a firm of solicitors, she thinks. Or maybe an undertaker. Dignified,
calm-in-a-crisis, respectable kind of name. The sort of funeral service you would chose to take care
of the final arrangements for an ancient auntie or second cousin-twice-removed who had no other
living relatives. Cathy grabs that thought by the scruff its neck before it can disappear down
another rabbit hole like a Jack Russell. She is on her way to Brighton, and has managed (with less
fuss and bother than she had anticipated) to catch a speedy train that is ignoring most of the
stations along the way as if they were poor relations, undeserving of attention. Poor Mr. Wivel.
Cathy picks up her tablet and presses a few buttons to get back to the book she has been struggling
to read. It was suggested to her by a friend who is generally bang on the money when it comes to
book recommendations. Cathy is growing increasingly impatient with the heroine of the story: for a
protagonist she is neither personable nor charming and (in Cathy's opinion) highly unlikely to ever
solve the mystery of the disappearance of her parents. Cathy could tell her that their yacht was
deliberately scuppered off the coast of a remote Hebridean island by the malicious ferry owner, but
clearly this woman is paying no attention: she is impervious to even the most obvious of clues, and
would not pick out the murderer even if he had a neon arrow pointing to him in a lineup. Where was
she? Ah yes, said protagonist is traipsing over the moors like a third-rate character from a Brontë
novel, oblivious to the perils that will undoubtedly soon catch up with her. Cathy has to stifle her
desire to yell, "He's behind you!" at her tablet. She puts it down again. She thinks about her
journey here, and wonders what she will make of Brighton after so many years.
She was last there as a twelve-year-old, on a day trip from guide camp. They had been picked up in a
rickety coach from the old Colonel's field and made their way down the A23 with lots of jolly
campfire songs and boiled sweets. She'd spent the day with her friend Janet, arm in arm, exploring
the Brighton Pier with its dogems and ghost train, arcades and bingo. They had bought "99" ice
creams and walked along the esplanade in their Girl Guide uniforms, watching the tourists enjoying
the sunny August weather, packed onto the pebble beach. She remembers seeing the exotic Pavilion
with its preposterous onion-shaped domes, looking almost embarrassed by its lavish embellishments,
as if it would blush to the tips of its skinny minarets. She can't remember going inside though.
Maybe she will do that today. She wonders whatever happened to Janet; she was a kind, thoughtful
friend, but their ways had parted when the went to different secondary schools. She looks out of the
window as Preston Park whizzes by --- undoubtedly a Jane Austen novel in the making, thinks Cathy:
two lonely sisters struggling against social mores, one wrestling with her feelings for a penniless
curate and the other resisting the advances of a wealthy landowner. All the while, their family
estate is crumbling around their ears, and they can no longer afford to keep Hattie the kitchen
maid. Poor Hattie. Badly done, Preston Park, badly done. Cathy is rattled from her reverie as the
train slows down into Brighton station.
It's starting to drizzle as Cathy leaves the station; what to do? She rummages in her bag for her
umbrella, but by the time she has opened the wretched contraption (after a failed attempt to scold
it into submission), the sky has cleared a little and the drizzle has trailed off. Encouragingly,
the sun is making an effort to poke little holes in the grubby grey clouds. She decides to take the
back roads towards the sea front, and makes her way towards Buckingham Street. The row of
(Victorian? she ventures) three-story houses are newly painted, looking as if they have been lined
up and dipped in a bucket of Jersey cream by a team of giant milkmaids. Continuing down the hill she
joins up with St. Nicholas Road and its white-washed terraced cottages, all standing to attention in
the weak Spring sunshine. Some of the houses have names that pique her interest: Arnold House, Gunn
House, Bingham House. Mr. Bingham? Oh! Not quite Mr. Bingley (since the house is somewhat modest).
Perhaps a distant relative with only £500 a year? Cathy smiles to herself. She continues on down the
hill towards the sea along Church Street. The black-and white harlequin pattern of several doorsteps
catches her eye and she wonders why (or indeed how) people took the time to create such mosaics. She
takes her time, dawdling along the church wall, pleased that the church doors have been painted a
cherry red. A single squawky seagull adorns the roof, hopping along the tiles, irritated by the
wind-vane impeding its progress. No good arguing with an intimate object, you daft bird, thinks
Cathy. She continues on, observing that this stretch of Church Street is somewhat down-at-heal: a
little scruffy at the edges and in need of those giant milkmaids. Stucco has crumbled in places,
leaving patches of exposed brick --- to be much admired in a bijou hipster loft, but not so pretty
on a Brighton street. Ground-level surfaces are decorated with loops of spray-painted graffiti, but
by the time she reaches the Brighton Dome, the street has shaken its tattered raincoat and the
buildings have emerged all neat and tidy, like a piles of fresh laundry.
Just past the Dome is a statue of George IV. It says so on the plinth, otherwise Cathy would have
been at a loss. Ah! Of course! Wasn't he the Regency king responsible for the self-indulgent
pavilion-folly? The plinth also reads,"Erected by public subscription 1828". Cathy wonders what
"public subscription" meant. Or indeed, still means. Was there such a thing as a cheque in 1828? Did
volunteers stand on street corners in Brighton collecting farthings and pennies to go towards the
cost? At any rate, George IV looks very pleased with himself. With one hand he waves in the general
direction of the Royal Pavilion, as if to say, "Look at what I made. Isn't it sublime?" With his
other hand he grasps the edge of his cloak, giving his viewers a glimpse of his rather wrinkled
hosiery. Cathy is reminded of Ozymandias' boast: *Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair.* See
Georgie Porgie? Didn't turn out too well for him, either, she chides. As she carries on down Old
Steine, she quickens her step; this part of her sojourn is a less conducive backdrop for
contemplation as the lunchtime traffic makes it way, somewhat impatiently, to and from the sea
front. Even the buses seem to have somewhere they would rather be. She hurries past the Royal
Pavilion, glancing briefly at its fabulous architecture, which, on a chilly March day, looks sad and
miserable, shivering in the cold and longing for sunshine. The Old Steine gardens on the other side
of the road look equally unhappy and rejected: scruffy grass and a few carelessly planted spring
bulbs. In the centre is a formerly grand fountain, with frilly iron basins and inevitable dolphins,
waiting patiently for the water to be switched on again in the summer. Cathy presses on: she can
smell the seaside now, the combination of salt and --- what else? Whatever it is, it is a smell
that is unique to seaside towns on the English Channel. Even at this time of year there is a scent
on the breeze of seaweed and diesel, fish suppers ice cream: a lingering phantom of Summer past, or
perhaps Summer yet to come. Cathy takes a short cut from the main street down Pool Valley. Such an
oddly-named street! She wonders how it got its name since there is neither a pool nor a valley to be
seen. She slips between the tall, elegant seafront houses and steps out onto the esplanade. Cathy
stops and breathes in the briny air. Everything looks very familiar: the rusty balustrades, the
turquoise lamp posts, the gaggles of teenagers and the weather-beaten dog-walkers. She slows down,
taking in the vista of grey and green. The tide is a long way out and the pebble beach is deserted
--- not one soul in either direction as far as she can see. Cathy reaches the pier and is about to
walk under entrance way with its perky little clock tower, when she sees that the ice-cream stand is
open. A ninety-nine, she thinks, just the ticket.
