---
date: "2020-07-24T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "David"
description: "David is raking up the leaves."
kind: "box"
keywords:
weight: 155
---

## For David. Rest in Peace.

David is raking up the leaves. It's an hour before school starts, but he likes to get a jump start.
It won't be long before there are hundreds of teenagers making their way down this path into school.
He has a leaf blower but he prefers to do this work by hand: raking the leaves into piles and
stuffing them into large paper sacks to be added to the compost heap. He works slowly but
methodically, getting the paths cleared ready for the new school day. The school has a small
vegetable garden, and David has taken it upon himself to make sure the compost bins are filled up
ready for the season. He enjoys watching the kids coax the potatoes and tomatoes into life that will
become produce for the school canteen. He reckons its good for them to know where their food comes
from.

It's late October and the clocks have just gone back. David has never understood the rhyme or reason
for this annual ritual, but at least the mornings are a little brighter. He rakes up the last
handfuls and makes his way back to the storeroom where he keeps all his tools and cleaning products.
He has a small table and chair where he can take a short break and make himself a cup of tea before
the next task. He keeps his pint of milk in a bucket of cold water - a habit left over from his
grandmother's house that he has never seemed to shake. While he waits for the kettle to boil, he
takes out his newspaper and surveys the headlines. Politicians and celebrities up to their usual
nonsense. He turns to the sports pages to see what might be on telly tonight. A couple of football
matches, as it turns out: a welcome distraction from the latest home makeover programme. He takes
out the pencil from behind his ear and starts the quick crossword: 1D. Garden tool (4). Rake. David
chuckles to himself and writes it in.

After his tea-break David gets his trusty Hoover out to vacuum the main entranceway mats. They've
had a quick clean the night before, but David always likes to give them another going over before
most of the staff arrive. It's important, he thinks, to give good impression to visitors. As he
finishes off, the Head arrives - always the first in, David has observed.

"Morning, David"

"Morning, Mr. Nelson, lovely day, bit windy, though."

"Thanks for clearing the path, David. Much appreciated."

"Right you are."

David continues on his way.

Next job - giving the main corridor a quick mop. He manoeuvres the bucket-on-wheels through the
double doors, almost bumping into Andrew, the Head of English. Andrew is another early starter,
David has noticed. They exchange their usual "good mornings" and continue on with their respective
tasks. David likes Andrew. Decent chap, he thinks. Always polite, always time for a quick chat.
Unlike the other bloke in his department - Luke, is it? Flash Harry. Always got a smile and bit of
banter for the girls. Seen his type before, David thinks, as he swishes the mop to and fro across
the tiles.

Back in the storeroom, David takes a look at his to-do list for the morning. He only works
part-time, but that suits him well. He retired from his job at an old-fashioned ironmonger a couple
of years back, but found himself bored and restless after just a few months. The caretaker's job at
the nearby school was advertised in the local paper; he jumped at the chance to make some extra cash
and to keep himself busy, and he's never looked back. The work is not too taxing and he enjoys being
able to get on with what is required of him with little interference. On his list for today is the
usual fare: a couple of light bulbs that need replacing in the Science lab, a sink blocked in the
sixth-form centre and a couple of shelves that need putting up in the English storeroom. David has a
system for organising odd jobs that need doing around the school. All folk have to do is slip a note
in the slot in the store room door, and David adds the request to the list on his clipboard. Once
the job is done, he crosses it off on the clipboard, and places the piece of paper on a metal spike
on his table. Simple. David could use his phone to keep a note of his tasks, or, God-forbid a
computer, but he likes this system better. No fuss, no bother. And if the Bursar wants to know what
he's been up to, he can look through the notes and lists he stores every month in a spring box file.

Having fixed the lighting in the Science lab and unblocked the sink, David makes his way to the
English department. He's feeling a little tired this morning - probably all that raking, but he's
definitely feeling his years today. David has never been in robust health. At school he was one of
those kids with a year-round cold and cough, although now it's his heart that has been giving him
trouble. The specialist has given him tablets that seem to be doing the trick, but there are still
some days when he feels as if he's ninety-three. This is one of them.

The kids are all in class as he walks along, so the corridors are quiet except for the background
buzzing coming from the classrooms. Like little worker bees, thinks David. He finds Andrew is at his
desk, elbow deep in a pile of exercise books.

"Ah, David - thanks for dropping in. Just need a couple more shelves for supplies. It seems we never
have enough space around here."

"Not a problem Mr. T. - happy to help."

David sets about his task, humming quietly to himself as he measures up the wall space. Carefully,
precisely, he puts up the two new shelves, trying to make as little noise as possible so as not to
disturb the teacher.

"All done - I'll leave you in peace."

"Thanks, David - that's good of you."

"No bother. All in a day's work, Mr. T."

David collects up his tools and walks slowly back to the storeroom. He's definitely feeling wearier
than normal - maybe another cup of tea will perk him up? Perhaps he should book an appointment with
his GP to get a check up. Add that to the list. Back in the storeroom there's a couple of new bits
of paper waiting for him. There's some graffiti that needs removing in the girl's toilets (no change
there, then!) and a section of guttering is leaking in the History block. David notes those down on
his clipboard for tomorrow. Grabbing his jacket off the back of his chair, he locks the storeroom
door and sets off for home.

David's flat is above an estate agent, just off the high street, a good 20-minute walk from school.
This afternoon he wants to pop into the local supermarket for a couple of items for his supper: half
a dozen eggs and a tin of beans. Mushroom omelette tonight, with perhaps a yoghurt for pudding.
David is not a big eater - his mother used to say that he ate like a sparrow, but he does like the
occasional fish supper or takeaway pizza when the mood takes. As he walks up the steps to his front
door, he feels a little out of breath. Best make that appointment with the doc, he thinks to
himself.

The rest of David's day is taken up with his usual routine - a little cleaning, a load of laundry,
writing a birthday card to his niece. His chores out of the way, he settles down with a nice cup of
tea and finishes the crossword.

His evening is equally uneventful: contentedly watching the footie in his favourite armchair with
his supper tray on his lap. Before turning in, he washes up his dishes, puts the chain across the
front door and sets his alarm for the morning.

He climbs into bed, grateful for his warm duvet and comfy pillows. He soon drifts off into restful
sleep, unaware that he will not wake up.

