---
date: "2019-09-11T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Duncan"
description: "Duncan is taking his lunch break."
keywords:
kind: "box"
weight: 130
---

Duncan is taking his lunch break. He checks in with Kay, the supermarket manager: “That’s me on
lunch, now, Kay.” “Right you are, Duncan.” He hangs his apron on his peg in the staff room and takes
his wind-cheater. It’s a fine June day, but there’s still a stiff breeze coming off the river. He
takes a little detour, going down the steps towards the esplanade. He has his fish paste sandwiches
stuffed in one pocket and a scruffy paperback in the other. He’s always liked fish paste: even as a
kid it was his favourite. A comfort food perhaps, now that he is semi-retired. He turns left,
walking past the small car park that services the railway station and the ferry terminal. It’s not
yet summer season, and the car park is only half-full. These days the tourists usually get dropped
off from coaches and then take the passenger ferries to Dunoon or Kilgreggan. Over the water there
are a couple of seagulls dipping and squawking, fighting over a scrap of food. “Not getting my
sandwich, fellas!” Duncan chuckles to himself. He carries on past the open-air swimming pool that
has been there as long as he can remember. It uses brackish water from the Clyde, and although
heated, always seems to be a little chilly. No matter, it has a wonderful view and marked swimming
lanes, all for three-pounds-forty.  Duncan enjoys a short swim there on warm summer days, one of a
handful of hardy pensioners who arrive when the pool opens at 7.30am. He enjoys his twenty lengths
of slow but efficient front crawl, leaving the fitness centre for the younger crowd.

Continuing down Albert Road, Duncan passes the Cenotaph. He’d been a small child during the war; the
Clydebank Blitz is a foggy memory for him, recalling only the sound of sirens and his parent’s
terror. All three had huddled together under the dining room table, white with fear as the bombers
flew overhead with their terrible cargoes, those on the ground not knowing if Glasgow would be
hit. Even after the all-clear siren sounded, they’d stayed put until dawn, curled up in their
blankets like mice. He stops briefly in front of the memorial, and wonders about the lives that
could have been, the potential that was lost. He’s fond of the German word for monument: Denkmal,
which roughly translates as “think for a time.” So, he thinks for a time, and moves on to his
preferred bench that looks out towards the Cowal Peninsula. He takes out his sandwiches and the
book, and, offering up a short grace (a habit from childhood he has not been able to lose), begins
his lunch. The book is not well written: a hackneyed thriller, but company enough for his break. He
enjoys browsing the book section at the local charity shop, and often picks up a paperback or two
for 50p. This is not one of his best finds, but it will do for today.

Duncan’s thoughts drift a bit as he watches the colours of the water change as the clouds process
by. He looks out towards Holy Loch and Beinn Mhòr: the hills are blue-grey in the distance, and seem
to him more welcoming than imposing; the calm surface of the water disguising the treacherous
undercurrents that lie beneath. He realises that despite its mercurial nature, the Clyde has been
his faithful companion throughout his life: he’s always lived close to it, from his early days in
Glasgow, throughout his work in the Govan shipyards to his quiet later years. Dependable,
constant. He wonders how many of the boys he used to go to school with are still around. Some, he
knows, emigrated to Canada and Australia when the shipyards began to close, quick to take flight as
they saw the times changing and the jobs drying up. Others carried on, their faces set like flint,
determined to stick it out.

Duncan had been a marine engineer, more of an office worker than a shipbuilder, but he is proud of
his work through the years and for the ships that were launched with the help of his skill and
knowledge. His had been a less dangerous career, for sure. He’s saddened that the faces of those who
lost their lives on the job have now started to leak from his memory. He does remember the
atmosphere in the office after two young men were killed in a welding accident, too badly burned to
be seen by their desolate mothers. Men moved around quietly at those times, eyes down, voices soft,
chins set. He’s reminded of a line from an old folk song:

<i>“I ofttimes heard my mother say, ‘It was tears that made the Clyde’…”</i>

Duncan believes this to be true. He’s wary of those who recall the “good old days” when men worked crushing shifts for meagre wages, whilst their wives took care of the weans in housing that wasn’t fit for dogs to live in. The cold linoleum on the floor and buttermilk for breakfast, the outside cludgie and the scummy bathwater. These memories hold no affection in his heart. He’d ofttimes seen his mother weep: tears of frustration and anger, tears of self-pity and despair. 

Duncan sighs. His life is steady now: it can hardly be called luxurious, but it is comfortable. His
cosy flat above the Clydesdale Bank suits him fine; his part-time job stacking shelves at the
supermarket keeps his mind ticking over and his bank balance in the black. Lunch-time over, he makes
his way back to the supermarket. He puts on his apron and wheels the cartons of rich tea biscuits
and custard creams towards the grocery aisles.

