---
date: "2020-08-20T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Elizabeth"
description: "Elizabeth sits in the kitchen of her modest ground-floor flat."
keywords:
weight: 121
---

Elizabeth sits in the kitchen of her modest ground-floor flat. She sips her coffee and tries to read
the morning paper, but the print wobbles and wavers. She can’t focus. She wonders why she still has
The Guardian delivered, since it’s all online these days. Habit, she supposes. There is something
satisfying about going to the newsagent each week and paying her newspaper bill. She has had the
same Saturday routine for as long as she can remember: brisk walk around the green, back via the
newsagent and bakery for a weekend treat. Two plain croissants this week, but soon it will be time
for hot-cross buns. She’s looking forward to that. Let’s face it, she needs something to look
forward to, however small.  Bess's death has thrown her for a loop. Elizabeth knew that Bess was in
her final days, but her passing has upset her more than she cares to admit --- to herself or anyone
else. True to form, Bess had slipped away quietly, without fuss or bother when Elizabeth had left
the room for a few minutes to grab a coffee and a sandwich. She was told by the nurse that this
happens often: the dying wait for a moment alone and quickly take their leave. She doesn’t begrudge
Bess her last, private breaths, and --- God knows --- she did not want her poor dear friend struggling
any longer. Elizabeth smiles, thinking how Bess had died with a tiny upturn in the corners of her
mouth, as if enjoying the joke.

Time is getting on. Elizabeth pushes her chair back, rinses out her coffee cup, and heads for the
hallway. She checks herself in the mirror, fluffs her hair, and applies a little lipstick. She takes
her cherry-red jacket from the hook, scoops up her car keys and handbag and heads out.

The drive to the church is not long --- twenty minutes or so --- allowing Elizabeth to take her time
and compose her thoughts. She’d known Bess since their first day at school. To her dismay, she had
found out there were three Elizabeths in Mrs. Beckwith’s class, but they were soon differentiated by
their formidable teacher: Bess, Lizzy and Elizabeth. The three had remained in touch over the years;
it was Elizabeth who had sent a note to Lizzy letting her know that Bess had died. She’d thought
about phoning her, but in the end, could not face repeating the same awful information to one more
person listed in Bess's pretty address book. Lizzy was too good a friend to telephone with such
dreadful news, she reasoned, and a hand-written note seemed more appropriate. Bess's family (an
older brother and an elderly aunt) had asked for her to be buried in the family plot by the sea in a
private ceremony, so there will be no wake after the church service. Elizabeth is somewhat relieved:
such occasions are always fraught with emotion and sadness, people clutching a plate of curled up
sandwiches and a cup of lukewarm, over-milky tea, trying to make polite conversation. No. She hopes
that she and Lizzy will spend a quiet afternoon reminiscing, remembering their beautiful friend and
celebrating her life with a gin and tonic or two. On that thought, Elizabeth turns into the church
car park. There are only a few spaces left: clearly there will be quite a send off for
Bess. Elizabeth checks her face in her rear-view mirror, and takes a deep breath before locking the
car door and making her way into the church.

Bess was a regular at St. Michael and All Angels, and it seems the entire congregation has turned
out to bid her farewell. The church is (surprisingly!) warm and she is welcomed by a polite and
courteous girl in school uniform who hands her an Order of Service and another who directs her to a
space in one of the pews. Elizabeth takes it all in. The music is not from the organ, but some
gentle classical music is playing softly. She recognises it, but can’t name it. Close to the front,
there seems to be a whole class of school children (seven or eight-year-olds, Elizabeth reckons),
and behind them what must be the best part of a troop (pack? what’s the right word? she wonders) of
Girl Guides. The floral arrangements are modest, in line with Bess's wishes: small bunches of
daffodils and tulips tied with ribbon and attached to each pew, with larger bunches laying on the
altar and across the pulpit. They look home-made, as if friends and family have taken flowers from
their gardens and tied each one with care. Elizabeth finds it all painfully touching, and mops up
her tears with a cotton hanky. She shrugs off her coat, and places her handbag by her feet, having
retrieved her reading glasses so that she can distract herself with the Order of Service. There’s a
lovely photo of a younger Bess on the front: she sits, bent forward, a tiny bird house in her
hands. She’s talking to a group of small children who sit around her in a semi-circle; all eyes are
on Bess. One little boy has his hand in the air, bursting to ask a question. Elizabeth smiles, and
wonders if that little boy has carried on his enthusiasm for nature. She thinks he probably has. As
she works through these thoughts someone touches her arm - Lizzy! They hug, briefly and somewhat
awkwardly in the confines of the pew. Lizzy removes her coat to reveal an elegant bright-red
dress. She looks at Elizabeth: “What do you think? I just couldn’t wear black.” “Me either. You look
wonderful - just perfect.” Lizzy smiles and smooths the skirt of her dress as the congregation rises
for the funeral procession. The words of the vicar are clear above the shuffling of Bess's aunt, who
makes her way up the aisle on her nephew’s arm, her shoes scuffing on the flagstones: “Rest eternal
grant unto them, O Lord: and let light perpetual shine upon them…”

The funeral is both fitting and uplifting: a thoughtful and strikingly honest eulogy from Bess's
brother, a reasonably tuneful version of “All Things Bright and Beautiful” and a heart-felt song
from the school choir, that leaves most of the congregation reaching for their tissues. The service
concludes with a final prayer: “O Father of all, we pray to thee for those whom we love, but see no
longer…” More tears drip from Elizabeth’s chin; she dabs at them hopelessly with her hanky - now a
damp, scrunched-up ball. At this moment, the thought of seeing Bess no longer seems too awful to
contemplate. She glances at Lizzy, who has fixed her gaze firmly on the vicars face, but is biting
her lower lip as tears dribble down her cheeks. Bess's coffin is slowly, tenderly, taken out to the
waiting hearse, which will take her on her last trip to the seaside. Elizabeth and Lizzy gather
their belongings and leave the church arm-in-arm in grateful comfort, neither wanting to speak. One
of the Girl Guides hands them each a bunch of daffodils and a small card - a thank you for coming,
where no thanks are needed.

Elizabeth parks her car on the road outside her flat. She is weary and sad, but pleased that she and
Lizzy had a chance to catch up, if only for a brief cup of coffee at the station cafe before Lizzy
had to catch her train home. She opens the front door, hangs up her coat and car keys, and shakes
off her shoes. “I think I’ll have that gin-and-tonic now,” she says out loud, though her flat is
empty. In the kitchen she pours herself a generous measure of her best gin, and adds a couple of
splashes of tonic. She raises her glass and gives a silent toast to her beautiful friend. Outside
the window, perched on a coconut shell filled with seed, a house sparrow enjoys its supper.
