---
date: "2020-07-03T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Gill"
description: "Gill is making up the guest bed. She wishes she could be a bit more enthusiastic, put
a little more heart into her task."
keywords:
kind: "box"
weight: 70
---

Gill is making up the guest bed. She wishes she could be a bit more enthusiastic, put a little more
heart into her task. No whistling while she works. Instead she is wrestling with the duvet cover.
She has bought a new set especially for this visit: crisp white cotton from Marks and Spencer,
washed carefully and ironed with extra care and attention, knowing that her visitor is very exacting
about such matters. She can hear that cut-glass accent grating in her ear: "Envelope corners,
Gillian, envelope corners. No-one wants to see sheets hanging out like shirt-tails." She obeys,
snapping the sheet corners into perfect triangles. Once everything is arranged and smoothed over,
she places a set of towels (also white, also washed and fluffed) at the foot of the bed. She steps
back and surveys her handiwork. Not bad. "Well, it\'s the best I can do," she reasons, knowing it
will not be assessed that way by her visitor. Not in a million years.

She opens the window slightly, to let a little air in. It's a cold February Saturday: nasty, damp
cold that creeps in through every crack and crevice. Gillian would much rather have her feet up in
front of the Aga stove in her kitchen with a trashy novel and a generous glass of red. She's almost
past the embarrassment of having an Aga. So middle-aged-middle-class of her, but a) it came with the
house and b) it's cheap to run. And it's perfect on those endlessly grey and dreary days, when the
Christmas cheer has long gone. So, instead of indulging in the latest Nora Roberts, finding out
whether "Darby" (why? why?) has managed to disentangle herself from the villain of the piece, she is
fussing over every detail pending the arrival of her guest.

Reg, the tabby cat, is eyeing her with a mixture of curiosity and agitation; he's not sure whether
to make a run for it through the cat flap or demand Gill's attention with his pitiful yowl. He opts
for Plan C: hide under the stairs and wait for calm to be restored. Reg's plan is short-lived, as
Gill hurries down the stairs, hoover in one hand, feather duster in the other, and pile of old
magazines under one arm. She'd forgotten she had stored her back issues of "Hello" magazine in the
guest bedroom. Normally, she wouldn't care: this is her weekly guilty pleasure, admiring all the
lovely gowns and finding out what the Danish royal family did at Christmas. However, she knows that
her visitor would only think less of her, dismissing her reading material as tawdry---beneath her
contempt. "One less snarky comment," Gill thinks, as she dumps the magazines into the recycling bin,
covering them with copies of the local free newspaper, just in case. She doubts her visitor would go
so far as to inspect the recycling bins, but you never know. Reg winds himself around her legs as
Gill steps back into the kitchen; she ignores him as she rummages around under the sink for the
vinegar spray. Reg takes this as a personal insult and makes his displeasure known with an irritated
yowl. "Yes, yes, Reg. I will get to you in a moment," Gill sighs, and, grabbing the roll of kitchen
towel, she marches back up the stairs to clean the windows and mirrors. She catches a glimpse of
herself in the bathroom mirror: no make-up and messy ponytail, reading glasses askew and
bleach-splattered t-shirt. Still, she'll have some time later to get herself ready, once every inch
of her modest house is spick and span. Reg patters in to find out what she is up to. He yowls,
hopefully. "Reg, really, I'll feed you in a minute. I only have one pair of hands." She carries on
with her spraying and polishing, picking up odds and ends as she goes along, stuffing scraps of
paper, half-used lipsticks and forgotten hair ties into the pockets of her jeans to deal with later.
Back in the guest bedroom, Gill wipes over the print that her visitor gave her as a birthday gift
several years ago. She doesn't care for the cutesy picture of a tabby cat, and begrudgingly replaces
the misty watercolour with the homage to Reg. Reg doesn't care for it either, and yowls in
disapproval. "Thrice the brindled cat hath mewed. I see,"says Gill, rather pleased with her own
joke. "Although, I don't think you are truly brindled, just a bit stripy, eh Reg?" Reg stares
blankly. Back downstairs (up and down those stairs like yo-yo she thinks) Gill forks the cat food
out of the tin and into Reg's dish. Reg does not care, as long has he gets his two square meals a
day and a place to nap in the sun, he's as happy as a clam at high water. Gill shrugs and carries on
with her clean-a-thon: Vim in hand, she tackles the bath and shower, using her pent-up resentment to
wipe away every last speck of dirt. Why, oh why, did she agree to this visit? She knows that she
will be walking on egg-shells for the next two days: every word will be taken down and used in
evidence against her. No doubt the pillows will be too lumpy, the tea not hot enough and the towels
the wrong colour. It's her own fault. She should have said no, but guilt crept in like a thief, and
Gill was cornered. Nothing for it but to grit her teeth and get through as best she can.

Finally, with the house clean and the cat fed, she can get herself ready. Time for a quick shower
and a cup of tea before her guest arrives. Of course, as soon as she steps in the shower, her phone
rings. Hastily wrapping a towel around herself, she grabs her mobile just before it goes to voice
mail. It's her mother. "Gillian, it's your mother. I cannot come to see you this weekend after all.
I have come down with the most dreadful cold, and your house is so draughty I fear I would catch
pneumonia. I trust you haven't gone to too much trouble on my behalf?" Gill reassures her that all
is well, and that they can do this another time. She wishes her mother a speedy recovery and a good
night's sleep. Pressing the red button, she breathes a huge sigh of relief.
