---
date: "2018-08-05T11:00:00-08:00"
title: "Hastings"
description: "The girl with the milk-pale skin is paddling in the cold water of the English Channel,
daydreaming."
keywords:
kind: "girl"
weight: 50
---

The girl with the milk-pale skin is paddling in the cold water of the English Channel, daydreaming.

<p style="text-align: center;">
❦
</p>

Our great aunt and uncle live in Hastings. We go and visit them every few months, and sometimes stay
for a few days. Great Aunt Ruth has steel grey hair: no-nonsense pudding basin cut. Probably done
with a pudding basin. She stoops as if she has dropped something in front of her, and shuffles in
her sensible shoes from kitchen to dining room. She has an unconscious habit of saying "with it" at
the end of each sentence: "Shall we start dinner now, with it?" Mum says that Aunt Ruth has a
"dowager's hump", but I don't really know what that means --- well, I do know what a hump means
(camels and whatnot) but I have no clue about dowagers. Aunt Ruth has a reddened nose and sad,
watery eyes that are not dissimilar to those of her ancient cocker spaniel, Bess. Bess is most often
found in front of the electric fire in the small dining room that adjoins the kitchen, since it is
the warmest spot in the house.

Aunt Ruth and Uncle Wright live frugally, like elderly church mice. They have married late in life,
and are devoted to each other, although I notice that Wright does most of the talking and Ruth does
most of the work. Uncle Wright has a lot of interests: football, painting, politics, and goes down
to *The Railway* pub with Dad after dinner to, "put the world to rights." Dinner is always a grand
affair, with paper-thin slices of bread and butter, boiled eggs and mandarin jelly. Aunt Ruth is
always a touch snippy with me, and my mum tells me that is is because when I was small, I sneezed
over my boiled egg without putting my hand over my mouth. I think that it is a long time to hold a
grudge. When Dad and Uncle Wright go to the pub, we are allowed to watch television in the front
room. This is my favourite part of our outing to Hastings, as I am allowed to have a small glass of
sherry. Aunt Ruth countenances only one brand, Tio Pepe Extra Dry Fino, which I sip, together with
handfuls of salty peanuts as we watch *Dr. Who*.

Aunt Ruth and Uncle Wright's house is on three storeys --- the top floor is a self-contained flat:
bedroom, living room and kitchen. This is reached from the top landing (where the bathroom is also
located). Mum and Dad have the bedroom, with its narrow single beds and starched sheets, and we have
camp beds in the living room. These beds are an eclectic mix: my older sister has an ex-army camp
bed with khaki canvas and wooden frame. It wobbles and creaks when she clambers in. My oldest sister
has an orange canvas beach lounger, that has a death wish on all its occupants: it will either
squash your fingers in its mean-spirited hinges, or upend you if you don't sit exactly in the
middle. It is something like a giant Venus Fly Trap. My bed is made from several metal tubes that
have to be connected together before a royal blue canvas cover is fitted over it. It is only a few
inches off the floor, but at least it is quite sturdy and doesn't object to being slept on. Once we
are in bed, mum gives us sugared hot milk, and tucks us in with a waft of *Blue Grass* perfume and
her goodnight blessing: "Kiss Mama, kiss Dada, Snugglies Grandma." We fall asleep quickly.

I am woken by the cries and squawks of the local seagulls. If nobody else is awake, I lie in bed,
examining the wall paper. The wall paper is very fancy, given that this room is rarely used. It has
a diamond and stripe pattern in grey and burgundy. Each diamond is made up of a series of dots, but
each dot is slightly misshapen, and none are the same. A bit like snowflakes, I think. We spend our
days in Hastings mostly on the beach, or walking along the esplanade. Sometimes we take a detour
along Bottle Alley: a walkway underneath the main promenade that is lined with panels of pieces of
coloured broken glass stuck into concrete. Sometimes we browse
in the tourist shops along the
seafront; there is one shop that we return to year after year. I peer into the window, watching the
glass-maker at work. He forms tiny beasties by heating rods of different coloured glass, producing
ark-fulls of animals: turtles and angelfish, rabbits and swans. I have a favourite: an octopus, a
blue, luminous creature with fragile spaghetti legs and startled, googly eyes. At home I have him
sing along and do the actions with me, "Swimming, swimming, in a swimming hole..." Sometimes we walk
to the end of the town to the fishermen's huts and boats. There are tall, black fishing net huts
here that tower above the beach like a rows of black-frocked guardsmen. There's a smell that
pervades this narrow wedge of the town: a mixture of fish, seaweed and oil that seeps out of the
brick and wood. We scrabble over the drifts of cobble stones to reach the fresh fish stands. Mum
likes to buy fresh fish here: cod, sole and plaice, and prepare it back at the flat for supper.
Fresh fish and vegetables, because we are not one of those fish-and-chips-bread-and-jam families. We
have our meals at the table, with a table cloth and napkins, wedding-present cutlery and somewhat
battered table mats. We have salt and vinegar, but not tomato ketchup. Our meals have strict rules
of behaviour that are always enforced: "Get your elbows off the table!" "Put your knife and fork
down - are you conducting an orchestra?" I pick through my food, eyes down, looking out for
needle-like bones. Every scrap is eaten up; guilt and fear drive me to push down the flaky fish and
stringy beans.

One summer, we take a day trip to Hastings. The weather has been warm and dry, and we are looking
forward to a day on the beach, sunbathing and swimming. I spend the day splashing in the waves and
wandering along the strands of seaweed, nose-down looking for sea shells and pretty stones. Mum has
brought a picnic with our favourite goodies: cheese and Branston pickle sandwiches, sausage rolls,
crisps and Penguin biscuits. The chocolate sticks to the Penguin wrapper, so I gobble mine quickly,
and then lick the wrapper clean when my mum isn't looking. Mum has brought the sun-tan lotion, but I
am careless in its application, and, since there is a brisk sea breeze, I don't notice that my skin
is cooking. On the way home, we huddle together in the back seat, shivering under a green tartan
blanket. To keep us entertained, we play "Little Blue Light." This involves asking questions of the
little blue light on the dashboard: if the answer is "yes", the light comes on. If "no", then the
light goes off. Do you like sausages? Do you like ice-cream? It never occurs to me that this light
has anything to do with the operation of the headlights. Once home, we help mum with the unpacking
and tumble into bed. During the night, the extent of my sunburn becomes clear. My back and legs are
red raw, and my shoulders are starting to blister. I cannot sleep, and by midnight I am throwing up
in the bathroom. My mum hears my distress and calms me down, saying that I will be, "as brown as a
berry in the morning." She puts Nivea cream on my tender skin, and tucks me back into bed. The next
morning I am not as brown as a berry, but as red as a pomegranate, and thoroughly miserable at my
own stupidity.

<p style="text-align: center;">
❦
</p>

The woman with the milk-pale skin is paddling in the warm water of the Pacific Ocean, daydreaming
under her wide-brimmed hat.
