---
date: "2023-09-01T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Joan"
description: "Joan is busy in her vegetable patch."
keywords:
kind: "covid"
weight: 130
---

*July 2021*

Joan is busy in her vegetable patch. The clouds have finally parted after three days of almost
incessant rain and she can finally get out into the garden. It feels good to have soil between her
fingers and a trowel in her hands. She hums to herself as she uproots weeds; nothing like a bit of
gardening to put her in a better mood. She turns over the earth around the potatoes to try and give
them a little air. Wretched clay soil. No matter how much compost and sharp grit she adds, it always
seems to clump and stick. And don't get her started on the slugs and snails. Chomp through your
brassicas before you can say *Jack Robinson*. That nice man with the plait - Bob
somebody-or-other? - on *Gardener's Question Time* said beer traps are effective. Nonsense. Joan's
slugs guzzled down the lager like sailors on shore leave. Saying that, several of her cauliflowers
and cabbages have made it through to maturity and are coming along nicely. Having coaxed the
potatoes into making more of an effort, Joan moves on to the greenhouse.

The tomato plants are looking downcast. There's a few fruit starting to appear here and there:
little green globes doing their best to ripen despite the lack of sunshine. Joan rather fancies that
it will be humdrum green tomato chutney again this year rather than the batches of chunky salsa she
was hoping for. It's been a dismal start to the summer, Joan reflects, pinching out side shoots with
more force than necessary. Cloudy and grey for the most part - hardly a proper summer's day to be
had this year. Heading back to the house, she snips some mint to boil with her potatoes for supper.
Hard to beat the taste of potatoes straight out of the ground with a good dollop of butter. None of
that dreadful margarine malarky, thank you very much. Small pleasures. Funny how small pleasures
have become so much more important over these past eighteen months or so. Who would have predicted
that a virus from a distant land could whip around the world turning the whole globe upside down?

Joan remembers hearing about COVID-19 on the news; even then she had a nasty feeling that it was
going to be worse than first thought. The first few months were dreadful. Trips to the supermarket
were a nightmare - lining up for half an hour only to find the shelves half empty. Tiresome months
spent avoiding friends and family, grim statistics in the morning newspaper and nary a bag of flour
to be found for love nor money. Worse still, the ineptitude of the politicians and lack of clear
guidance from those in charge of navigating this awful pandemic. And now, over a year later, another
wave coming and government telling us we have to live with it. Didn't say that about smallpox. Or
polio. Or AIDS. No-one talks about "living with" malaria or cholera. Imbeciles. How could people
with so little empathy ever lead a country? Joan checks herself. No good ranting - just be careful
who you vote for next time.

Joan puts on the kettle for a cup of camomile tea. Just the thing when she can feel her stress
levels going up. Plus, she remembers, there is still a half-open box of chocolates in the larder - a
thank-you from her neighbour for watering her plants as they visited their grandchildren for the
first time in forever. Marvellous. A cup of tea and a couple of salted caramels will do her good.
She inspects her fingernails - still a line of dirt from the garden, she had better give her hands
another scrub. After a year-and-a-half of Covid, at least she can get that right: twice through
"Incy Wincy Spider" (or once if you do the actions) and she's good to go. As she rinses her hands
under the tap, she realises she's not wearing her wedding ring. "Where the devil did I put it?" she
wonders, drying off her hands on the tea-towel.

Lately, she's found she has days where she loses everything - phone, keys, purse. So frustrating
when you have to dash around the house searching for some silly item that you know you put somewhere
safe - you just can't remember where. Yesterday she put the milk in the sink and the teaspoon in the
fridge whilst making her morning cuppa. And she still can't find her kitchen scissors. Covid Brain!
She makes her way around the house, searching all the usual haunts to find her ring. Bathroom shelf?
Nope. Kitchen window sill? On top of the microwave? Bedside table? No - her ring is nowhere to be
found. Joan takes a breath and another sip of camomile and tries to collect her thoughts, pressing
down the anxiety that is starting to slither its way in. "Think clearly, Joan, for Heaven's sake.
Where did you last see it?" She re-runs her morning through her mind, and realises to her horror she
remembers seeing her ring on her finger as she was digging the potatoes. She knows that the chances
of finding her ring may well be next to zero, but she goes back to the garden to check anyway. After
twenty minutes of grubbing around in the vegetables and scouring the greenhouse, Joan comes up
empty-handed. Dismissing the thought to give up she does another circuit, raking over the potato
patch, and then searching through every nook and cranny of the greenhouse. Nothing.

Weary and sad, Joan slumps at the kitchen table and thinks about what she can do now. Crying's not
going to help, that's for sure, although she can feel the sting of tears. But, if Covid-stupid-19
has taught her anything, she knows that although her wedding ring is dear to her, the memories of
her marriage - the good and the bad - are much more valuable. She realises, quite clearly but
painfully, that she has a choice to make: bewail the loss of her cherished ring, or be grateful for
what it represented. Sitting up straight, and wiping her eyes with the cuff of her sweatshirt, she
plumps choice number 2. "And, who knows?" she thinks, maybe, one day, she'll find it again as she
digs a new potato set. Or perhaps she'll find as she cleans out the tomato pots ready for another
season. And with that, she reaches for a second salted caramel.
