---
date: "2018-07-01T11:00:00-08:00"
title: "Kames"
description: "The girl with the too-short hair cut makes her way down the dirt path. She is taking
the short cut beside the football pitch; it peters out at the edge of the sea loch."
keywords:
kind: "girl"
weight: 90
---

The girl with the too-short hair cut makes her way down the dirt path. She is taking the short cut
beside the football pitch; it peters out at the edge of the sea loch. She treads with care; her
wooden Dr. Scholl's sandals are not designed for this terrain and she is in danger of slipping. No
matter. She can take her time since her uncle is still getting the little boat ready. There is a
cool, salty breeze coming from the loch, but she's warm in her Arran jumper. Her mum made it
specially for her; it has two rows of bobbly knots down the front that she twiddles with. Her shorts
are still too big for her: hand-me-downs from her older sister that she has not quite grown into.
She reaches the bottom of the slope without too much difficulty and stops to inspect her leg. There
are two pinky-red cloth plasters: one just inside her knee, and one on the outside of her ankle.
They are itchy, as are the dozen or so scratches that run down her leg from knee to foot. Stuffing
her thumb in her mouth, she counts them slowly. There are fourteen, including the smaller ones. She
continues on her way over the rocky beach towards the water, still happily sucking her thumb. No-one
is watching, so she will not get the usual telling-off. "Only babies suck their thumbs," they scold.
At the water's edge she puts her toes into the water, testing it out. Too cold for swimming, but
good for paddling.

Further along she reaches the mouth of the stream that runs beside her uncle's cottage. here she has
spent gleeful hours exploring the narrow braided channels and miniature waterfalls.

She likes the cottage with its wobbly wooden floors and ancient hair-stuffed sofa bed. She likes
rifling through auntie's draws: amongst the hair grips and packets of Rennies she has found real
treasure: a bottle of magical fake tan and a Max Factor lipstick.

The cottage has an outside toilet with a corrugated iron roof: torches hang in the entrance way
ready for night-time trips to the loo. They have been staying here for a few days: mum, dad and her
older sister. She likes her uncle. He's funny and kind, and likes making up little songs as he
potters about. Today's song is about finding the equipment for fishing: "Ting-a-ling a-ling a-ling,
I've lost the ball of string..." he trills. Mum and dad are not coming on the fishing trip: mum
feels guilty about not paying for the cottage (she's always embarrassed by anything that seems like
charity), and so she will be weeding the garden as payment. Dad is whitewashing the outside loo;
perhaps he feels guilty, too.

She is interrupted by her older sister who comes sashaying down to the beach. They share the sofa
bed at night with its buttercup yellow sheets and scratchy pale wool blankets. The cottage backs on
to a rookery; at summer dusk the birds make it difficult to get to sleep with their constant cawing
and screeching. Last year the sisters scared themselves half to death: they watched "The Birds" on
the cottage's old black-and-white television, and then huddled under the bed covers, terrified of
the noise outside. Her older sister wants to know when the boat will be ready, but she doesn't know.
There is something wrong with the outboard motor and their uncle is trying to fix it. While they
wait, the younger girl ambles among the rocks looking for shells. Meantime, her sister grumpily
throws pebbles into the loch, as if they had done something to irritate her.

The boat is ready, and the girls head towards their uncle who is calling to them; the older sister
marches in front with her sister trailing behind. They clamber in, and sit opposite each other at
the bow. Their uncle is at the stern, steering them through the shadowy water. Cautiously, she
watches her older sister under her fringe. She cannot trust her; the barbed-wire fence has taught
her as much.

Driving to the cottage they had both needed to wee, but since they were nowhere near a public
convenience, Dad had to stop at the side of the road. A barbed-wire fence was between them and the
bushes that would give some privacy, but they were both so desperate after the cherry colas at lunch
time, they had little choice. Her older sister had gone first, and she had followed, gingerly
climbing over the fence. On the way back, her sister was faster and more nimble, and, worried that
she would be told off for making her parents wait, she rushed her descent and slipped. The rusty
barbs caught her right leg. Straight away, she knew there would be trouble. Her parents had to take
her to the nearest hospital for treatment; the bleeding stopped on the way, but the wounds needed
cleaning and she would require a tetanus injection. She apologised all the way there. The motherly
nurse had been soothing and re-assuring, but she knew it was all her fault. The throbbing pain of
the injection in her arm that night had seemed a kind of penance: what she had deserved for her
clumsiness.

Her uncle cuts the motor, and the boat bobs for a time on the quiet surface. He sets a fishing line,
and lets it out behind the boat. It barely makes a shimmer in the water as they move off, heading
south towards the wide open inlet. Far too quickly, the line is being twisted and there is quick
movement in the water. Uncle shuts the engine, and carefully draws in the line. Three mackerel have
been caught, their zebra backs iridescent as they are lifted out of the water. She can't watch as
her uncle swiftly hits their heads against the bottom of the boat. Supper has been supplied, but she
will refuse to eat it. She is sorry for the fish as they look up at her, surprised by their fate.
She looks out towards the inlet, miserable.

She is alarmed to see the weather up ahead: storm clouds are moving quickly towards them, black and
forbidding. Almost immediately, it starts to rain and uncle turns the boat around, his face grim and
rigid. He says nothing as the storm bears down on the loch. The rain is coming down in sheets and
the sisters exchange frightened glances, but do not speak, willing the little boat to the shore. As
they near the rocky beach, uncle jumps out and pulls the boat up to safety. The sisters scramble out
onto the rocks and run as fast as their legs will carry them up the slope to the cottage. They
arrive back, their Arran jumpers soaked through. Mum instructs the girls to strip off their sodden
clothes and they dry themselves on scratchy blue towels. Dad and uncle chat together in the living
room, watching the rain blurring the view of the loch. The storm passes over.

The woman with the long curly hair makes her way down to the beach. Along the strand line,
purposeful and ponderous, she searches for sea glass.

Tignabruaich

Kames

Adolphin Cottage

Outside bathroom

Garden needing tending

Ancient sofa bed with horse hair stuffing

Rooks/crows The Birds

Rocky beach and seaweed

Little stream with pools and waterfalls

Searching for rocks and pebbles

Going to the post office; postcards home

Writing in holiday diary look-see

All for here fall oot

Sunday Post - Oor Wullie and the Broons

Going to the general store with faded advertisements and smell of Dettol

Going to the Queens head for coca-cola

Raineo et Midgeo

Golf course with sheep windswept

Route from Dunoon over hill and valley heather and sheep

Single file roads with black and white posts

Views down loch

Fishing for mackerel - caught three for supper

Drawers full of forgotten bits and pieces - especially Rennies and fake tan

Arran jumpers

Grouse foot brooch

Scottish type brooch

Shopping for souvenirs - agate and quartz, Love Lilt

Please remember, don't forget

Never leave the bathroom wet

Nor leave the soap still in the water

That's a thing we never ought-er

Single track roads with sheep and black and white striped poles

Purple heather

Golf course with sheep and wind next to the coast

Tufts of sheep wool stuck in the barbed wire fences

Walk along the road from Kames to Tignabruaich

Mum doing gardening as payment embarrassed that we didn't pay

Outside loo with shower that you could hook up

Washing in cold water

