---
orig-date: "2020-10-18T13:00:00-08:00"
date: "2020-09-17T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Kay"
description: "Kay is on the plane to Malaga. She is on her second mini bottle of Teacher’s scotch,
having knocked back the first one in two gulps, just to steady her nerves."
keywords:
kind: "box"
weight: 140
---

**1985**

Kay is on the plane to Malaga. She is on her second mini bottle of Teacher’s scotch, having knocked
back the first one in two gulps, just to steady her nerves. The second one is lasting a bit longer,
now that she has relaxed. She has realised that the plane is not going to drop from the sky like a
stone, and the pilot seems to know what he is doing. Kay has never been on an airplane before, and
is beginning to like the idea. She’s pleased that the seat next to her is unoccupied, for two
reasons: one, she doesn’t want to be stuck with a chatty Patty for three hours and twenty minutes,
and two, she can stretch out a bit and keep her bag on the seat beside her. She’s bought herself a
roomy straw tote for all her bibs and bobs, that will double up as a handy beach bag when she gets
to Benalmadena.

Kay has planned this holiday since Christmas, daydreaming of warm, rain-free days as she stacks the
grocery shelves in her local supermarket. She’d been able to swing some overtime (thanks to her
lovely manager, Brian) and has scrimped and scraped for months to pay for a week’s holiday in Sunny
Spain. She’d seen the advert in the back of the Radio Times on Boxing Day, whilst at her parent’s
home. As an only child, Christmases have never been a grand affair: turkey and Christmas pudding,
watching the Queen’s speech wearing the crêpe-paper hats from the crackers. Whilst her parents dozed
through Escape to Victory on BBC1, Kay had leafed through the holiday section when a small advert
caught her eye:

“Self-catering studio flat, Benalmadena, Costa del Sol. Complex has private swimming pool. 10
minutes from beach.”

Kay made up her mind quickly. Within days she had sent a cheque for the deposit, booked her flight
at the local travel agent and applied for a passport. Her parents were none too impressed, her
mother asking in wide-eyed disbelief, “Wha’s wrang wi’ Ayr?”

She had felt quite giddy, not quite knowing what had overcome her at the time, but now that she is
on her way she is so pleased she took the plunge and ignored her mother’s misgivings. Kay wonders
what the weather will be like. Well, at least it will be warmer than the west coast of Scotland,
where summer in Ayr means dodging the rain showers and the midges in equal measure. What about the
food? She’s got her Spanish-English dictionary so that she can buy basics for the week, and with a
few pesetas left over for souvenirs or Duty Free. Her mum is quite worried for her, convinced that
water in Spain is not fit to drink and the streets not safe to walk. Kay has to admit she’s a little
concerned about landing late in the evening, but she has been told that she can get a taxi from the
airport to the flat, so there is no need for concern.

Stepping out of Malaga airport, Kay stops for a moment and closes her eyes. The evening air is warm
and welcoming; it has a quality that she cannot put her finger on. Like being wrapped in a woolly
blanket on a cold night, snuggly and comforting. The taxi driver knows her destination well, and
points her to a notice in English letting her know that there is a flat rate for fares from the
airport to her destination. She thanks him in hesitant Spanish as he places her suitcase in the boot
and opens the door for her.

It’s not long before they arrive outside Edifico Iris: Kay pays the driver (adding a generous tip)
and approaches the reception desk. She is greeted by Isabel, who is both fluent in English and good
at her job; within a few minutes Kay is clutching a set of keys and on her way to the fifth floor in
a somewhat rickety lift. The corridor is quiet and Kay’s sandals click-clack along the tiled floor
to apartment 508, which turns out to be just as advertised: small, but brightly painted and
decorated with a galley kitchen and pull-down bed. “Home” thinks Kay, “I’m home.”
