---
date: "2021-03-06T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Laura"
description: "Laura is on her way to work in her trusty VW Golf."
kind: "box"
keywords:
weight: 190
---

Laura is on her way to work in her trusty VW Golf. It's got a few dents and scratches, and is rusty
here and there, but she doesn't care. It starts first time, does great miles to the gallon and is
easy to park. She's got the radio on, and is singing along to a chirpy pop song, not thinking too
much about the day ahead. She works for the UK subsidy of a US company; most of her job is thinking
up new marketing ideas and keeping track of sales. She's good at what she does and is prepared to
put in the hours and hard slog to get results. Today, one of the US owners are in town for a visit,
so she wants to be in early to make sure everything is prepared for their meeting this morning:
powerpoint presentations and reports all ready to go.

On the last visit the owner (Scott) had asked some tricky questions that had caught her on the back
foot leaving her blushing and stammering like a halfwit. "Way to go, Laura, way to go", Scott had
smirked, enjoying her discomfort. This time, she does not want to be made to feel like a fool if
Scott puts her on the spot about some issue with the sales figures. She knows the numbers are good
and that their latest campaign has exceeded expectations, so this time she will stand her ground and
give her presentation with aplomb.

Her boss, Geoff, meets her at the office door. He's about to pick up Scott and his family from their
hotel: this time Scott is bringing his wife and eldest daughter with him. "How are you doing - ready
for the onslaught?" Geoff asks. He dislikes these visits as much as Laura: they both feel as if the
UK operation is looked at as the poor relation - not quite up to snuff and an embarrassment to the
rest of the company. They are tired of being compared to the Australian outfit - the other outpost -
who seem to thriving. No matter. Geoff and Laura know that they have gone above and beyond, and that
their sales are now picking up.

"I'm good to go," Laura replies, "I must have been through the material a hundred times."

"I've got your back, Laura, you know that, right? You'll be fine. Scott's bark is always worse than
his bite, remember that. I'll be back in 20 minutes."

"Thanks, Geoff. I'll put the coffee on."

As Laura checks the seating and water bottles for the third time, she hears Scott and Geoff
returning. She straightens her jacket and goes to reception to greet the US visitors. Scott is all
smiles and handshakes - seemingly happy to see Laura. He introduces her to his wife, MaryBeth, and
their daughter, Ella. It's still astounding to Laura that Scott and MaryBeth have ten children
ranging from thirty-something to seven. Don't they have television in Alabama? Laura has no idea how
they have managed this feat between them since, a) Scott is not the most attractive man on the
planet, and b) MaryBeth looks remarkably wrinkle-free and relaxed. Ella doesn't say much - Laura
puts that down to a long haul flight and being amongst strangers. She must be around 16 or 17; Laura
wonders what would be like to have nine siblings, all vying for their parents attention and time.
MaryBeth must be run ragged, but she doesn't show it. Laura's thoughts are interrupted by Scott:
"Laura, I have a job for you today. Could you help MaryBeth and Ella this morning? We are buying
some new furniture for our house and they need you to help chose." Laura looks at Geoff, who gives
her an encouraging nod.

"Sure, Scott. I suppose we can go over the sales figures later."

"Great. MaryBeth has all the details - if you could drive her over there?"

It is more of an order than a request. At this point there are several thoughts going through
Laura's mind. First, why can't MaryBeth tell her all this - can she not speak for herself? Second,
once again, Scott has put her on the back foot - instead of giving a presentation she'll be
providing a taxi service for his wife and daughter. Third, her car, although reasonably neat and
tidy, is not exactly new and shiny and she hates to think how MaryBeth and Ella will judge her. "Of
course, Scott. No problem. We'll get going right away."

The drive to the country farmhouse shop, along country lanes is uneventful. MaryBeth chats at length
about her house and family, whilst Laura keeps her eyes on the road and drives at a steady 30mph.
The oldest of MaryBeth and Scott's tribe (Jacob) is about to get married. Laura shudders to hear
that the wedding is to take place this summer at a former plantation, but the historical
significance is lost on MaryBeth. She's clearly very proud of her brood (who wouldn't be?) and
speaks about their various talents and achievements. The twins (aged 10) are excellent piano players
(although they have to take turns practicing on the family baby grand); the youngest girl is showing
a great talent for art and has produced some lovely watercolours that have pride of place in the
dining room. The Ella is applying to college next year to study Psychology, and has a fascination
with graveyards. Laura shudders again. Ella remains voiceless in the back seat: Laura glances in her
rear-view mirror from time to time - Ella is passively gazing out of the window. Laura can't imagine
what the Scott-MaryBeth household must be like - it sounds like her worst nightmare. That said,
having only one sibling of her own feels like an underachievement, and remaining single aged 34 with
no boyfriend (and definitely no offspring) seems like abject failure.

The furniture shop is vast: literally a barn of a place, stuffed full of rustic pine and oak.
Everything from tables and wardrobes to bookcases and nightstands are packed to the gunnels. It
turns out that MaryBeth has quite the shopping list, and they spend a good couple of hours perusing
the aisles and carefully picking out pieces to be shipped to the States. Laura has no idea why
MaryBeth is so keen on purchasing English furniture - surely most of these items could easily be
bought locally, but she insists that this is of much higher quality and will be cheaper in the long
run. However, there is one piece that will need to be custom-made: a new dining room table that will
accommodate the whole family. MaryBeth wants this to be fashioned from pine and then "distressed" to
make it look much older. Laura is at a loss to know why you would deliberately thrash a perfectly
good table to within an inch of its life, but what does she know? MaryBeth wants it to look vintage,
as if it has been used by generations of English gentlemen farmers.

Laura doesn't see the final bill, but it must be in the tens of thousands. Everything will be packed
and shipped in the next month or so, including the monstrous table that will not take long to build
and then beaten into submission. On the drive back to the office, MaryBeth is clearly elated by all
her purchases and can't wait to get back to the US to arrange it all - especially the table. She
thinks that they might use it for the family event they have planned for the night before the
wedding. She imagines it will be like launching a ship to celebrate Jacob and Melissa's marriage.
Perhaps they will smash a bottle of champagne against it, thinks Laura; let's face it, a few more
dents and scratches are not going to make a difference. She is thankful she didn't say that with her
outside voice as they turn into the office carpark.

A few weeks later Laura sits at her kitchen table and drinks her Saturday morning coffee. She is
picking at a bit of dried lasagna left over from last night's dinner that is still stuck to it. She
may not have cleared up thoroughly, but at least she sat at the table to eat rather than slumming it
in front of the TV. In the end, she reflects, her fears were unfounded: the sales presentation went
according to plan and Scott, for once, complimented the team on their progress. If you can count
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Good job, guys" as a compliment. MaryBeth sent some lovely photos of the
<span dir="rtl">"</span>table launch" and of the wedding, although Laura notes that in all the
photos Ella is looking sullen and moody and that her mother<span dir="rtl">'</span>s smile looks
painted on. Scott and the happy couple look, well, happy. Laura worries a bit about Ella, and
wonders if she should write to the girl and invite her for an English vacation where she can wander
through graveyards to her heart<span dir="rtl">'</span>s content - like a Hardy heroine.

She inspects her table: second-hand Ikea, but it does the job. However, after the recent visit she
is reflecting on some of the choices she has made. Perhaps she should save up for a new car instead
of going skiing next February? Maybe she should replace her bedlinen and update her bath towels,
since both have seen better days. She sighs. It seems so dull and tedious to spend her well-earned
weekends shopping for stuff she doesn't really want. She drains her coffee and heads for the shower.

MaryBeth sits at the table, her head in her hands, tears pouring down her face. Ella sits next to
her, on one of the beautiful oak chairs they bought in England, her arm around her mother's
shoulders. Their world has been broken into pieces, and nothing can be done to repair it. Although
perhaps they should have seen it coming. MaryBeth's suspicions had been aroused by Scott staying at
work later than usual, with vague responses to the reason why. He had spent several nights away from
home: nothing unusual, but he came back quiet and detached. Then, two weeks ago, he finally
confessed. He was having an affair with a co-worker, and was leaving MaryBeth to set up home with
the woman. Leaving his wife of thirty-five years, their ten children and their beautiful furniture.
Now, she reads through the lawyer's letter again with increasing grief and anger. Ella is silent.
Having cried her heart out in private, she has nothing left to offer. "Well, Ella, my darling", she
notes bitterly, "at least we get to keep the table."
