---
date: "2019-08-31T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Lizzy"
description: "Lizzy’s heard it all before. Busy Lizzy. Frizzy Lizzy. Dizzy Lizzy…and that’s just the nicknames."
keywords:
weight: 120
---

Lizzy’s heard it all before. Busy Lizzy. Frizzy Lizzy. Dizzy Lizzy… and that’s just the
nicknames. Having been born in the same year as Queen Elizabeth’s coronation, her name was an
obvious choice, but she wishes that her parents had used a little more imagination when it came to
christening their daughter. There had been two other Elizabeths in her class at primary school:
Elizabeth, Lizzy and Bess. So that her teacher (Mrs. Beckwith) could distinguish between them, from
age five she was Lizzy. “Ah, yes, you are just like Lizzy Bennet from <i>Pride and Prejudice!</i>” Mrs. B
had clapped her hands at her sheer brilliance. “Oh! oh! And here is good Queen Bess!” Mrs. B had
trilled, much to Bess’ chagrin. There was nothing to be done. Bess she had been named, and Bess she
remained to her dying day. Lizzy is sure of this, since she has just received a note from the third
member of the trio, Elizabeth, letting her know that Bess has died.

This is not unexpected: Bess had been diagnosed with late-stage liver cancer just over a year ago,
and the wicked disease has done its work swiftly and mercilessly.  Lizzy sits at her breakfast table
trying to find an appropriate emotion. Perhaps she is still working her way through the stages of
grief, but finds herself stuck on anger. Sixty-six is no age at all, and Lizzy is furious that Bess’
life has been cut short. Bess was a sweet woman, kind and thoughtful. She had never married, had no
children. Her life had been devoted to the care of animals: not in the crazy-cat-woman way, but as
an educator and ambassador for an animal charity. She spent her days teaching children about looking
after their pets and taking care of animal habitats --- growing butterfly-friendly gardens and making
bee houses. She had lived quietly and purposefully, using her expertise and gentle enthusiasm to
make the world a better place. Perhaps only the good really do die young, Lizzy thinks, but it is no
comfort. She is spitting-feathers angry. In fact, she could spit an entire chicken, but she doubts
Bess would approve. She’s livid that such good, quiet, decent people die young, when stupid, vain,
greedy people live to be ninety. It doesn’t seem right. Lizzy takes a long breath and considers what
she needs to get done. She takes her “to do” list that is stuck to the fridge door and begins to
write down a list errands to run:

1. Black coat in dry cleaners
2. Black court shoes menders to be re-healed
3. Black dress… uh-oh. 

Lizzy takes a look at her only black dress in the wardrobe. It hangs slightly askew; its plastic
cover is starting to crack and crumble at the edges. She takes it out and holds it up to herself in
the mirror. A quick glance tells Lizzy that her black dress will not do at all: it has seen better
days and is far too shabby. She wants to do Bess proud. There’s no help for it: she will have to buy
a new dress, so this shopping trip may well take longer than expected. Lizzy curses under her breath
and slings the dress back in the wardrobe, slamming the door. Angry tears start to prick in her
eyes, but she has no time for them. Taking a a couple of deep breaths, she composes herself as best
she can, collects her bags from the hallway and sets off to get the bus.

The bus is due in three minutes, and Lizzy sits slumped in the bus shelter, her hands jammed in the
pockets of her raincoat. It’s an overcast grey and drizzly day. Lizzy reflects that the weather is
matching her mood, but it occurs to her that this is not true. Grey implies sadness and heartache,
but she is hopping mad. The anger is growling around her mind like a wronged lover, on the lookout
for someone to blame, someone to lash out on. Lizzy knows that she must keep her thoughts under
control and get down to business. She takes her list from her purse and plans her route through town
to get everything done before the 4:30 bus home. The bus arrives, and Lizzy takes a seat, grateful
that the driver has the heating on and the bus is warm and cosy. Just they are about to move off
there is a loud, insistent rapping on the side of the bus. The source is quickly apparent: an
elderly lady with an umbrella making her presence felt. The driver patiently opens the doors and the
old woman climbs slowly up the step. She waves her card at the driver and accuses the him of trying
to leave without her: “You were leaving two minutes early!” “No, madam,” he explains carefully, “I
was exactly on time.” “Not by _my_ watch!” She huffs and puffs her way to the nearest seat, satisfied
to have got the last word in. She looks at Lizzy for support, but she has picked on the wrong woman
this morning, and Lizzy looks quickly away: she is in no mood to give approval to silly old women.

Lizzy watches the world go by as the bus works its way to the town centre. Again, she finds herself
on the edge of tears but wipes them away impatiently. She gets off at the library, makes a point to
thank the driver, and heads towards the dry cleaners. The dry cleaners is quiet, with only one older
man in front of her. She is reminded (not for the first time) that retirement has its downsides,
since she now has to negotiate the world of pensioners who have a different worldview and a
different timetable to those in work. The transaction at the dry cleaners should only take a few
minutes, but the older man seems to be taking his time to explain (loudly) exactly how he would like
his jacket dry-cleaned. He then goes slowly through each pocket, rummaging around to make sure he
has left nothing behind. The owner of the dry cleaners takes down the man’s name and phone number,
and hands him a pink ticket. The old man takes the ticket and places it carefully in his
wallet. Meanwhile, Lizzy is having an internal conversation with herself. She knows the old man
needs time and patience, but she is not in the mood to give it. She chides herself for her lack of
compassion, reminding her lesser angels that the man is simply a bit slower, that he has done
nothing wrong. She makes an effort to smile at him and hold the door as he leaves.

Fortunately, dropping off her shoes at the menders goes without incident, and she considers her
options for finding a suitable dress for Bess’ funeral. She wonders if she should play it safe and
go for a sensible Marks and Spencer’s outfit, or whether she should try one of the smaller boutiques
that might have something a bit more avant garde. She decides to give “Rebecca’s” a go: she has
often admired the outfits in the window, but never had the confidence to go and try them on. She is
greeted with a smile and a friendly “Morning” by a tall middle-aged woman who is busy unpacking a
box of winter tights. Lizzy is grateful that she is left alone to browse through the racks. Since
she is looking for a black dress, the task is made somewhat easier, and she finds a couple that
might do the trick. “May I try these on?” she asks the assistant, who replies with, “Of course ---
let me know if you need any help or another size.” The first dress does not suit Lizzy at all: the
sleeves are too long, and the neck too high. “Oh, good Lord --- I’m Mrs Beckwith!” Lizzy grimaces at
her reflection. The second dress is not bad at all: fits on the shoulders, appropriate length just
below the knee, three-quarter length sleeves. Lizzy steps outside to look in the larger three-way
mirror. The assistant comes over: “That fits you really well,” she compliments, “a classic wool
dress that will last you for years.” Lizzy bites her bottom lip. “It is pricey, though. Can I have a
think about it and come back later?” “Of course. I’ll hold it for a couple of days behind the
counter for you.” Lizzy thanks her and changes back into her own clothes. She decides to go for a
cup of coffee and have a think.

The “Mr. Kite” cafe has been in town for years. It doesn’t quite go back to _Sargent Pepper's Lonely
Hearts Club Band_, but the decor is certainly sixties-themed with orange and green floral wallpaper
and formica table tops. Lizzy knows the manager, Debbie, well, and they chat for a bit as Debbie
makes Lizzy’s cappuccino. Lizzy tells her about Bess’s death, and Debbie (as always) listens
carefully and sympathises. The next customers come in, so Lizzy takes a seat by the window, and
checks her “to-do” list yet again whilst sipping her coffee. She wonders about the dress, and draws
up pros and cons columns in her head. Pros: good quality, classic, would last forever, probably will
be buried in it. Cons: expensive, expensive, expensive. She takes another sip of her coffee and
wonders what Bess would think. Smiling at the corner of her mouth, she realises that Bess would
likely have no opinion other than to tell Lizzy to do what she thinks is best.

Lizzy’s attention is taken by a kerfuffle that is taking place at the counter. A well-heeled
middle-aged woman with a fluffy honey-coloured dog is arguing with Debbie. She insists her dog
should be allowed in the cafe, but Debbie is telling her, calmly and politely, that unless it is a
service dog it must wait outside. Frankly, the dog (a Maltipoo! Lizzy realises with horror) looks
embarrassed, as if it would rather be anywhere but in the middle of this quarrel. “But it _is_ a
service dog,” the woman insists snootily, “I need Coco with me at all times for emotional support.”
“I’m sorry madam,” Debbie replies firmly, “I cannot allow your dog in here, she is not an official
service dog, and therefore must stay outside.” “If I say she is a service dog, she is a service
dog!” spits the woman, pushing her well-powdered face across the counter, “how dare you suggest that
I should leave poor Coco outside!” Lizzy snaps. She can’t have her friend demeaned in this way.  She
strides up to the woman: “And how dare _you_ speak to my friend like that? Who do you think you are
--- a princess? What makes you so special? Why don’t you take your ridiculous pooch and your
dreadful attitude and leave!” With this Lizzy marches to the door and holds it open. Clearly, the
woman is used to getting her own way, and does not know quite what to do. She opens and closes her
mouth as if to say something in reply, but comes up with absolutely nothing. With a loud sniff, and
a haughty lift of her chin, the woman struts out of the cafe like a snotty fourteen year-old. Lizzy
returns to hear seat, her anger subsiding. Debbie is standing with her mouth open: she has never
seen Lizzy quite this livid and does not know whether to thank her or scold her. She carries on
serving the next customer, who is also standing with his mouth open. Lizzy, meanwhile, is making up
her mind. She drinks the last mouthful of cappuccino and takes her mug back to the counter. “Thanks,
Debbie,” she winks as she leaves.

Back in “Rebecca’s” Lizzy tries on the black dress again. She realises it is not the expense that is
troubling her. It is something else, nagging at her like a scratchy label at the back of her
neck. She looks at her reflection again --- tilting her head sideways to get a better
impression. “Oh, Heavens,” she says out loud, “I can’t wear black for Bess, I just can’t.” Poking
her head around the curtain of the dressing room, she asks the assistant if the dress comes in any
other colours. “Absolutely” she replies, and goes to the rack to pick out two more dresses: one is
bright pillar-box red, and the other, sage green. She holds them up for inspection. “The red one,”
says Lizzy, “definitely the red one.”

