---
date: "2018-05-24T11:00:00-08:00"
title: "Mazed"
description: ""
keywords:
weight: 10
---

The girl in the red-and-white striped dress sits at the front of the class, right-hand side,
opposite the blue door. Absorbed in her thoughts, she chews the end of her pencil.
<!--more-->

<center>
❦
</center>

Her desk is next to a large locked cupboard, that holds teacher bits and pieces and extra reading
books. Mrs. H--- is unnerving. Clearly, I have done something to annoy her, but I don’t know what,
but I am six years old, so adults are a mystery. Her mouth makes an ugly turn down when she speaks
to me. I know I have erred in some way, but I have not been informed of my mistake, and cannot put
it right. Mrs. H--- has favourites. Sadly, I am not in this happy band, and resent the ones who are
petted and praised. I am not approved of, not gathered into her wiry, red-woollen arms. I sit on my
own at a desk for two until a new girl joins our class. She’s casually spiteful, and throws my pack
of class coloured pencils behind the teacher’s cupboard. I have no idea what to do, rendered mute,
immobile. I cannot think of the words to explain what has happened, and don’t know how to get my
pencils back. I do my best to explain my predicament to Mrs. H---, but my account does not make any
sense to her and she dismisses me with a flick of her wrist.

Numbers and words scrape and scratch their way across the blackboard in dusty chalk, but I can make
little sense of them. I beaver away in my exercise book: the cover is blue; the top half of page
plain for drawing, bottom half lined for writing. The ends of my pencils are chewed to shreds from
my bite marks. I want my work to look neat and tidy, but all to often my writing wanders around the
page like a cow in a field, and the corners are dog-eared and tatty. I try to smooth them down, but
they keep curling back up. I do my best to write my “news”, but I have little imagination and am
impaired by the anxiety that takes up half of my thinking; it seems my brain is filled with kapok,
or perhaps it is just stuck, as if the cogs haven’t had enough oil and are jammed, stuttering and
faltering. I’ve added a new tactic to help appease the constant drip-drip of fear in my thoughts:
chewing tiny holes in my pinafore skirt. I nibble whilst no-one is looking, the nip-snip of the
threads between my teeth is somehow comforting. Mum thinks we have moths, and I have managed to
persuade her that this is the correct analysis. I’m pleased with my small victory.

My mother provides me with homemade clothes for school: the regulation red-and-white striped summer
dresses are created at the dining room table with an old Singer machine. She likes to make us
matching Victorian bloomers using the same material. She believes them to be charming, but I’m
humiliated, and want to have normal knickers from Marks and Spencer like everyone else. We have
regulation navy knickers and white vests for PE: one week I forget to bring mine, and have to do PE
in my ridiculous bloomers. I hike them up as best I can, but they, of course, get attention, and I
blush and squirm my way through thirty dreadful minutes of pretending to be a tree in the wind and a
bird hopping between branches.

The school year goes past in a colourless monotony. Days are tediously predictable:
assembly-class-break-class-dinner-class-home. I like school lunches. We have good-natured dinner
ladies, who prepare tasty meals. I especially like the lady who serves the salad. “Beetroot?” she
always asks. Lunch breaks are made easier by my sweet friend, J---, who is from another form. We
spend our time performing pretend weather forecasts in front of a blue door, where the paint has
peeled to roughly the shape of the British Isles.

Back at my desk, I have little to write in my “news” book: our Monday afternoon exercise, in which
we write about our week. I chew the end of my pencil and consider my options. Little flakes of
yellow paint come off and get stuck to my tongue; I spit them out into my white cotton hanky, trying
not to draw Mrs. H---’s scrutiny. Our books are collected at the end of class by a book monitor: an
accolade I can never reach. It is an honour only bestowed on one of Mrs. H---’s favourites. However,
towards the end of the year I finally have something interesting to write for my “news” book.

<center>
<img style="max-width:30em;" src="/images/IMG_0489_edit.jpg" alt="Pebbles Picture"/>
</center>

It had been a average day at Hastings, home to my great aunt and uncle. We had driven down in the
white Austin 1100: Mum and dog in the passenger seat, Dad, of course, driving, three sisters on the
back seat with the picnic basket and thermos flasks tucked under our feet. We parked on the Marina,
near to the Warrior Square gardens, and made our way down to the beach with all our
paraphernalia. Decked out a hand-me-down swimsuit and towelling tabards, I played on the pebbly
beach most of the day, doing my best to avoid the tar from a recent oil spill. Inevitably we got
blobs of the sticky black goop on our flip-flops and towels, malevolent treacle that we had to clean
off later with a special solution. We paddled and splashed around the stone groynes; we are all
strong swimmers. Even if my English composition is lacklustre, at least I can do two widths
breaststroke. I have the green patch sewn on to my swimming costume to prove it. Somehow, suddenly,
both of my sisters managed to swim over the top of groyne and fell in the other side, where the
water was much deeper. Although they could have swum back, they panicked, and my dad had to rescue
them both. It happened in a moment. Watching from the water’s edge, I had been astounded by how
quickly this was over and done. I stood with my mouth open, reflecting later to my sisters that I
was “amazed.” My mother mis-heard this, and, as she related the story to friends and family, she
quoted me as saying, “I was mazed.” I said nothing of the sort, but grinned along, since it got me
attention for being cute --- a novelty for me.

I try this new trick with Mrs. H---, hoping it will elicit the same affectionate smiles. Carefully,
I draw the incident with stick figures and coloured pencils, and write a few sentences ending with,
“I was mazed.” I hope that this will mean that Mrs. H--- will look on me more kindly, perhaps give
me one of her coveted gold stars. But I am mistaken. My exercise book comes back, corrected, with a
red biro “a” in front of the “mazed”.

<center>
❦
</center>

The woman in the striped linen dress sits at the front of the class, carefully, deliberately editing her student’s essay. Absorbed in her thoughts, she chews the end of her red pen.
		
