---
date: "2021-01-01T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Petunia"
description: "Petunia is not happy."
keywords:
kind: "box"
weight: 171
---

Petunia is not happy. She really should have heard by now. A simple "Thank-You" note is all that is
required. One of those elegant flowery notecards you can buy in boxes of ten from John Lewis. Or
even one of those amusing ones that read, *Merci Beaucoup* featuring a cutesy French poodle. Even an
e-mail would suffice. But it has now been six weeks since the wedding and still no word. It seems to
Petunia that good manners cost very little, and that all the thought that went into buying the
wedding gift seems to have meant not a jot to the recipients. But that doesn't explain why she is so
cross. She knows that people are busy these days and the couple in question have a lot on their
plates; both have full-time jobs and family responsibilities to juggle, but even so. She also knows
that she should not be so easily offended and let it go. Easier said than done - for a couple of
reasons. First, the gift was not cheap, and took a fair amount of sleuthing on Petunia's part to
track down. But secondly, and perhaps more importantly, after the debacle that was her nephew's
wedding, she feels she's owed at least a perfunctory acknowledgement. She sighs.

Petunia had arrived in good time for her nephew's April wedding. Apart from being a stickler for
punctuality, she had been looking forward to the celebration - a chance to catch up with family
members she rarely sees--- and down a glass or two of champers. She'd even bought herself a new
dress in flattering shades of pale green and yellow. Quite Spring-like, she had thought. The
forecast had been for a mix of sunshine and clouds with a chance of a late afternoon shower---which
turned out to be a complete fabrication: it had poured down from the minute Petunia woke up. Coming
down in stair rods. There was nothing for it but to go with her new dress and wear her smart
raincoat over the top. No time to sort out a complete new outfit, just made do with what she had.
And besides which, she reasoned (reasonably), she could remove her coat when she got safely inside
the venue. She had carefully placed the wedding present and card in a classy gift bag, ready to hand
over at the reception. She was banking on one of those large tables that are positioned close to the
entrance so that guests can drop off their gifts, almost like an entrance fee or offering to the
wedding gods. However, when she arrived at the wedding setting (a posh 18th century manor house on
the edge of Oxford), her heart sank. The ceremony was being held in the tithe barn in the grounds of
the manor, which, with its high ceiling and huge doors, was perfect for a warm Summer wedding, not
so much for the middle of an English April. She parked her car as close to the barn as she could,
and despite her best efforts and the shelter of her large umbrella, her shoes (suede kitten heels in
a mint green) got splashed with dirt as she made her way in. She was one of the first to arrive, and
as she sat on one of the wooden folding chairs she felt both foolish and uncomfortable as she tried
to dab the worst of the dirt from her shoes with a Kleenex. The rest of the guests gradually filled
up the rows; it turned out that most of them had fallen into the same trap as Petunia. They sat
huddled together with their coats wrapped around them, like a boatload of evacuees from a flood. All
the pretty dresses hidden under layers of gabardine and wool. Petunia sat on the forth row back
getting colder and more irritated by the minute, as her umbrella formed a puddle beneath her chair.

The bride, Petunia noted, seemed oblivious to the cold in her silky backless gown, although the
bridesmaids looked as if they might collapse from hypothermia at any moment. Fortunately, to the
congregation<span dir="rtl">'</span>s relief, the service was brisk. It seemed to Petunia that the
officiant was speaking as fast as she possibly could, as if to get the whole thing over and done in
ten minutes flat. As the bridal party left quick smart, Petunia had a decision to make. Concluding
that she would have to abandon the wedding reception for those of a stronger disposition, she handed
off her wedding gift to the nearest usher, got back into her car and drove home, with the heating on
full blast. Once there, she wasted no time. She kicked off her grubby shoes, ran a hot bath and
poured herself a generous brandy. It was a good quarter of an hour before the feeling returned to
her feet.

Now, Petunia realises that her current unhappiness is magnified by the fact that not only has her
dim-witted nephew yet to grasp the basics of meteorology, but that he planned a wedding without
taking the needs of his guests into consideration. Hopeless. But it's more than that. It\'s that
galling feeling of not being significant enough in the eyes of her family to warrant any gratitude.
To make matters worse, it's taken for granted that she won't mention it, she won't upset the apple
cart. Good old dependable Auntie Petunia. "Well," she says to herself, "I'm going to have to remedy
that, aren't I?"
