---
date: "2021-08-16T13:00:00-08:00"
title: "Selfridges"
description: "Sally is on the train going to London."
kind: "misc"
keywords:
weight: 190
---

*Saturday, October 14th, 1978*

Sally is on the train going to London. She is slightly out of breath, having only just made the 7.32
semi-fast to Charing Cross by running up the stairs and getting to platform two in the nick of time.
The train is not too packed and she's managed to get a seat by the window. In her rush to get out of
the house, she's forgotten her book, so she'll have to make do with watching the world go by.

The world going by is not that fascinating on this misty October morning. She looks at the sad
suburban gardens: a few straggly dahlias and Michaelmas daisies hanging on, but the summer blooms
are withered and the trellises set up for runner beans and peas are bare, save for a few yellowing
tendrils. Sally yawns as the train goes through a short tunnel. She watches her image yawning back
at her.

It's been a long week at school. Miss Davies is relentless: having tortured her A-Level class with
Shakespeare and Keats last year, she's now got them clambering their way (pun intended) through
*Wuthering Heights*. Sally doesn't understand her teacher's reverence for this novel. Not even Kate
Bush can persuade her of its merits. Perhaps she is missing something? Right now, she dislikes each
and every one of characters and has concluded that Nelly Dean is making up half of the anecdotes for
her own amusement. And don't get her started on the appalling treatment of puppies. Sally can
imagine the essay title that Miss Davies is cooking up even now: "*To what extent does* Wuthering
Heights *have an unreliable narrator?"* Sally is always irritated by "to what extent" essays. She's
always tempted to write: "About 50%" and leave it at that. She sighs. At least she has Saturdays to
look forward to.

Her Saturday job not only gives her a decent amount of pocket money, but also provides a little
colour in an otherwise grey and dreary week. Living in an unremarkable suburb of London and going to
an all-girls school, there is not much in the way of excitement in her day-to-day life. Some of her
friends have Saturday jobs in their hometown: one at a baker's in the High Street, another at Boots
stacking shelves, and yet another at Dolcis, the shoe shop. All of these pay a reasonable rate, but
Sally calculated that even after paying the Â£2 (off-peak) train fare, she'd still make more money
working at Selfridges on Saturdays, and have way more fun into the bargain.

The train pulls into Charing Cross, and Sally follows the great unwashed into the tube station to
get the Bakerloo Line to Oxford Circus. As she makes her way down to the northbound platform, she's
greeted by the familiar smell of the London Underground: a strange combination of burnt toast,
grease and newspaper. Waiting for the train, Sally watches as a mouse is snuffling through the
layers of detritus between the rails. Or perhaps it's a small rat. At any rate, it disappears
sharpish as the train comes on to the platform. The carriage is packed and Sally hangs on to a pole
to steady herself. It's only a couple of stops to Oxford Circus, so she can just about put up with
the woman next to her, who has gone somewhat heavy with the *Anais Anais* this morning.

The train rattles into Oxford Circus, and Sally joins the stream of shop workers climbing the stairs
up into the morning bustle along Oxford Street. She takes her time since she has a good twenty
minutes before she starts work; she pops into the Greek cafe on Duke Street for a coffee and a
scone. The coffee is hot and sweet, and she dunks her scone into the froth as she walks along. She
licks the last crumbs from the corner of her mouth as she goes through the staff entrance to
Selfridges. She clocks in and heads towards the Ladies' Fashion Department on the first floor.

Sally dawdles through the cosmetics and perfume counters on route to the escalator. She passes Stan,
the goods lift operator, already busy with a dolly-load of shirts destined for the Men's department.
Short and stocky, he peers over his pile of boxes through huge square-framed spectacles. He gives
Sally a smile and a slight wave and hurries on. Sally likes Stan: doesn't have much to say for
himself, but he's always polite and he's good at his job. She pauses by the *Dior* counter: this
might be her favourite place in the whole world, with its golden packages and exotic perfume. She
lifts up a corner of the dust sheet and spritzes a touch of *Miss Dior* on her wrists while no-one
is looking. As she walks up the escalator (the mechanism does not start until nine o'clock on the
dot), the lights go on around the store, as if a play is about to begin. And, indeed it is: all of
life can be found in Selfridges if you care to look.

Up in the Ladies' Fashion department, Sylvia, the floor manager, is already at work removing the
white dust sheets from the clothes rails with a snap of her spindly wrists. Sylvia has been with
Selfridges for thirty years and is the quintessential shop assistant in Sally's imagination: rail
thin, immaculately dressed in designer black, steel grey hair tied up in a perfect bun on the top of
her head and a pair of half-moon glasses on a chain around her neck. "Ah, Sally. There you are. Be a
dear and tidy up the knitwear, would you? Those cardies look like they are in a jumble sale."

Sally does as she is bidden, folding and smoothing the new season's cardigans into tidy piles, ready
for discerning ladies of a certain age to purchase. Alice, the senior sales assistant, admires
Sally's efforts as she breezes through towards to the cash desk:"Morning-Sally-lovely
display-very-nice." She doesn't wait for a response as she sweeps through the racks and rails
towards the sales desk. Sally likes Alice as well. Probably around the same age as Sylvia, but cut
from an entirely different cloth. Her white-grey hair is always in wispy French pleat, pinned with
two rhinestone-encrusted slides. Plump and rosy, she looks more like a benevolent granny than a
sales assistant, albeit one who does everything at a hundred miles an hour.

Sally looks at her watch. 8.58. In a couple of minutes the fabulous revolving front doors will open
and shoppers will soon drift into the department, looking for new outfits for the Autumn season.
Sylvia arrives at her shoulder. "Could you take a look at the blouses section, Sally? There are coat
hangers all over the place. Dog's breakfast. I don't know what happened after closing yesterday, but
I shall be having words with Joyce when I next see her." Sally heads over to the blouses, feeling a
little sorry for Joyce (the assistant floor manager) who is a sweet soul, but somewhat moth-headed
(as Sally's mum would say), flighty and prone to forgetting things. Like tidying up all the rails at
the end of the day. Not to worry, Sally likes to keep busy, lining up the crisp white shirts and
flouncy peasant-style blouses in their correct order: size 8s at the front, then 10, 12, 14, 16 and
finally the 18s at the back. She's not sure why ladies with larger bosoms have to make more of an
effort to reach something in their size, but rules are rules. And Sylvia is very particular about
how things are done on her floor.

Once the blouses are organised, Sally looks around to see if there are any customers needing her
attention. She spots an older woman grappling with a navy blazer: she has one arm stuck, so Sally
goes to assist. "Can I help you, Madam?" she enquires.

"Thank you...er...yes...I seem to have got myself in quite the tangle."

Sally dutifully unravels the customer so that she can admire the blazer in one of the many long
mirrors. It fits perfectly.

"What do you think?" the woman asks, looking at herself from different angles.

"Fits well. Looks smart. Classic blazer that never goes out of fashion. Pricey, though - but it is
pure wool."

"My thoughts entirely," agrees the woman, wincing slightly at the price tag dangling from the
sleeve. I think I will take it." She shrugs the blazer off, and Sally walks her over to the cash
desk for Alice to ring it up, pleased that she has achieved the first sale of the day.

The department is busy all morning, and Sally finds herself rushed off her feet, helping customers
with their purchases and hurrying hither and thither from the changing rooms with various items of
clothing. One customer is having trouble finding an outfit for her niece's wedding and, despite
Sally's best efforts, is no nearer getting something that is either in her price range or suitable
for the occasion. Sally makes a last-ditch effort with a mulberry-coloured trouser suit. As she
waits for the customer to try it on (encouraging sounds coming from the changing room), she spots a
familiar face by the cashmere section.

A smartly-dressed, but otherwise not particularly striking woman is holding up a powder-blue
turtle-necked jumper. But she is not looking at the jumper: her attention is on another, younger
woman, who is loitering beside a rack of skirts. Sally stops for a moment to see how this piece of
drama will play out as she watches Sandra, the store detective, at work. This time, the would-be
shoplifter quickly realises she has been clocked and she makes a bee-line for the stairs before
swiping any merchandise. Sandra continues on with her phoney shopping. Sandra has some great stories
to tell of scraps that she has got into with would-be thieves. Like the man who bit her ("Had to
have a tetanus at the Middlesex Hospital") and the woman who stuffed all manner of loot down her
knickers in an attempt to make off with some of Selfridges' best. Unfortunately (fortunately?) she
left a trail all the way through the Food Hall and was caught by Security at the main doors. Sandra
had a good laugh about that one.

At lunchtime, Sally decides to forgo the staff canteen with its sad-looking salads and tasteless
soup, and heads off to Marks and Spencer's for a sandwich. Handy having Marks next door, especially
since the lunch menu in Selfridges Food Hall is way outside Sally's schoolgirl budget. And besides,
you can't beat a hearty M&S cheese and pickle sarnie. As she goes down the stairs, she passes a
woman and her child coming up. The woman is patiently waiting as the child takes the stairs one by
one, chatting all the time to his stuffed toy friend - a fluffy grey elephant. Sally smiles as she
hears a snippet of the little boy's conversation: "No, Nellie, we can't have ice-cream today, Mum
says its too cold...." Sweet.

Outside, it has started to drizzle, but not quite enough to require the services of an umbrella.
Besides, Marks is just a hop and a step from its more regal and upmarket neighbour. Sally grabs her
sandwich and an orange juice, and walks up to Portman Square for a little peace and quiet. London is
always busy with tourists, but this particular park seems off the beaten track, and there are few
people around for Sally to people-watch. She finds a bench next to the bandstand and eats her lunch,
denying the pigeons of their fair share. Bah! Pigeons. Nasty, frightful creatures that won't give
you a moment's rest once they know a few crumbs from a sandwich might be in the offing. Sally blames
*Mary Poppins* and the silly old woman feeding the birds when she had no business to.

Sally is hardly back on the sales floor when Sylvia comes over, and takes her firmly by the elbow to
the furthest corner of the department. In hushed and reverential tones, Sylvia informs her that Mr.
Stevens (General Manager, Selfridge and Co.) will be taking a tour of the first floor in a few
minutes and that Sally must be at her best. Sally is quite excited by this prospect: the stories
about Mr. Stevens are almost mythical in nature, and she's looking forward to catching a glimpse of
the man himself.

Sally busies herself tidying the display of cardigans once again. As she does so, she notices a pair
of black button eyes looking up at her. Nellie! Poor Nellie. Unceremoniously abandoned in the
Ladies' Fashion department. She picks the toy up and pats its head. "This won't do at all, Nellie.
What are we to do?" Nellie doesn't say much in return, but Sally takes the elephant's forlorn
expression to mean, "Please take me to Lost Property." Sally has to think fast: Mr. Stevens could
arrive at any moment, but that little boy will want his friend back and is probably quite
distressed. Sally reckons that she can get to Lost Property and back in 10 minutes if she runs, so
makes a quick dash for the stairs. And bumps straight into Mr. Stevens.

For an awful moment, neither speak. Then, as Mr. Stevens glowers at her, Sally tries to explain what
she is doing, waving Nellie as she babbles, realising that her story is coming out backwards. To her
great relief, Mr. Stevens starts to chuckle: "Excellent, excellent. Marvellous customer service. Do
carry on. Let's hope Nellie finds her way home, eh?" Sally blushes and nods and dashes up the stairs
as fast as her legs will carry her.

At the Lost Property counter (for lost property and lost persons), Roy takes down all the details,
filling out a small brown luggage tag, which he attaches securely to Nellie's trunk.

Description: Grey stuffed toy elephant  
Found: Ladies' Fashion, knitwear, 1.46pm  
Date: Saturday, 14th October, 1978  
Found by: Sally  

"Well, Nellie," says Roy, "I'll pop you on the shelf for now. I have a feeling you won't be with us
for very long."

"Thanks, Roy," says Sally.

"Right you are."

Sally walks slowly down to the Ladies' Fashion department thinking that her day has been much more
eventful than she anticipated. Now, though, she'll have to explain her run-in with Mr. Stevens to
Sylvia, who, she warrants, will not be best pleased. Oh, well, at least there is a chance of a
little boy being reunited with his toy elephant.

The rest of the afternoon passes without incident: Sylvia, to Sally's great relief, doesn't mention
the "Incident On The Stairs", and Sally finds tasks to keep her busy until closing time. As she's
looking at her watch, wondering how long she has to go, a harried mum and beaming boy clutching a
small grey elephant come up to her.

"Are you Sally?" Sally nods, smiling.

"Thank you ever so much for finding Nellie. Poor James has been beside himself, thinking she was
gone for good."

"Oh! I'm so pleased that you found her, I..." She is interrupted by an announcement comes over the
tannoy:

"*Ladies and Gentlemen, Selfridges is now closing. We thank you for shopping with us and take this
opportunity to wish you a safe journey home and look forward to seeing you soon*."

"Thank you again," says the mum, you've been very kind."

"My pleasure," replies Sally, and she means it.

<p style="text-align: center;">
â¦
</p>

*Sunday, October 15th, 1978*

Sylvia's alarm goes off at 7am. "Ticker" she calls it. Dreadful clock, she doesn't know why she
keeps it. She has to put it in a sock and keep it in her bedside drawer so that the relentless
"tick" (no "tock") doesn't keep her awake. Why she hasn't replaced Ticker with a quieter model, she
doesn't know. Heaven knows she has a decent enough Selfridges staff discount to buy herself a
top-of-the-range Goblin Teasmade. Wouldn't that be nice?

Sylvia looks at the ceiling and wonders where the cobwebs have come from. She yawns. Another job to
add to the list. She also wonders why she gets up so early on a Sunday when she could lie in. Habit,
she supposes. Church doesn't start until 9.30, so she has plenty of time to languish in bed but she
just can't do it. And besides, Sol will be wanting his morning walk before long. She looks at
Ticker. "Right. This won't get the babe a new bonnet", she says, quoting her mother, "best get the
tea on."

She takes her dressing gown from the back of the door, shuffles her feet into her slippers and goes
down stairs. Sol raises his head from his dog basket under the stairs. "Morning Sol," says Sylvia,
and ruffles his silky ears. Sol pulls himself out of bed follows her into the kitchen. Sylvia puts
the kettle on and opens a can of *Pal*. "Beef today, Sol. That's your favourite!" Sol doesn't seem
to mind. He doesn't have much of an appetite these days, being quite an elderly dog, but he wags his
tail and takes a few bites to show willing. Sylvia looks out of the window as she waits for the
kettle.

It's a grey, foggy October morning, and she can barely see the other side of the street. "Season of
mists and mellow fruitfulness," she thinks. Goodness, she can remember her schoolgirl Keats after
all these years! The kettle boils, and Sylvia makes her tea. It's one of her small daily rituals: a
couple of spoonfuls of *Fortnum and Mason's* best Breakfast Tea in a proper china teapot, and poured
into a proper china cup with a proper china saucer. She takes her tea upstairs and changes quickly,
since Sol needs a little stroll in the mornings to get going, as does Sylvia. She takes the lead
from the hook by the front door and Sol pads after her, down the stairs and into the street.

Sylvia lives in a four-storey block of flats close to Putney Heath. Built in the 1960s, they are not
particularly beautiful to look at, but the location is perfect. She and her husband moved into their
flat not long after they were built, and three years later she kicked him out. Well, not kicked him
out, exactly, just showed him the door after he confessed to having an affair with a woman at his
tennis club. She'd guessed as much; fortunately, they'd managed to part on civil terms. Also
fortunately, her ex-husband had the decency to be generous with the terms of the divorce and she'd
been able to buy him out. Not easy on her sales assistant's salary, but she'd scrimped and scraped
and made it through. Nowadays, she lives in relative comfort; the mortgage has been paid off, and
her only expenses (apart from Sol's vet bills) are on occasional weekends away and trips to the
theatre or ballet. Sol plods along, his arthritic hips slowing him down; they take their usual
circular route along the street and back. Sol has trouble with the stairs (no lift, sadly), so
Sylvia scoops him up and carries him the rest of the way.

Back home, Sylvia pours herself a second cup of tea, and Sol laps up some water, before returning to
his dog basket. Sylvia settles herself on the sofa and spreads out the Sunday newspaper, which has
been delivered whilst they were out. Still rumblings about a possible Autumn general election, car
workers at still on strike and still no further news about that poor newspaper boy who was killed.
Sylvia sighs, puts down her reading glasses and takes her tea upstairs. She has a quick wash and
ties up her hair into her distinctive bun. She is sure she could do this blindfold, given that she
has worn her hair this way for a good twenty-five years. Having "performed her ablutions" as her
grandmother used to call it, she sits at her bedroom mirror and applies a her make up. A little eye
shadow and mascara, a touch of blush and a smidgen of *Dior* lipstick (again, thank Heavens for the
Selfridges discount).

Sylvia loves her job at Selfridges. She's worked her way up the ranks and is now the floor manager
for Ladies' Fashion. Never a dull moment - just yesterday they had a visit from the General Manager,
Mr. Stevens. And there was that adorable little boy who was re-united with his lost stuffed toy.
Sylvia even enjoys her daily commute into town on the Number 14 bus. Fifty minutes to read a book or
just watch the world go by. Sylvia loves a good mystery: Ruth Rendell and Inspector Wexford are her
favourites at the moment. Thankfully, the wonderful Miss Ford at Putney Library always sets the new
ones aside for her. At the moment she is ploughing her way through *The Far Pavilions*, but she
can't say that she's enjoying herself. She keeps loosing the thread of who's who and what's what in
British India, so the pavilions are indeed far and getting farther. But, she's not one to give up on
a book once once she's started, so she will soldier on to the end.

Sylvia doesn't much want to go to church today, but since she always feels better for it, she
decides to make the effort. On her walk there (Holy Trinity Wandsworth, common-or-garden Church of
England) it begins to rain. The clouds looked quite menacing as she left the flat, and she's glad
she brought her umbrella. As she sits in her regular pew, hooking her umbrella over the one in
front, she takes a long breath. She takes in the familiar smell of old books and incense and checks
the board at the front to find out which hymns will be sung this morning: numbers 143 and 238. The
vicar, Reverend Williams, is not the friendliest of men (which seems odd, given his vocation), but
he does know how to chose a good hymn: one that everyone knows the words to, and can sing along with
gusto. Today's choices are no disappointment: "Thine be the Glory" and "For the Beauty of the
Earth."

Not a bad crowd in today, either, she notes. It's been a couple of weeks since Harvest Festival, and
there are still some chrysanthemums and dahlias left over to brighten up the place. The service
starts, and Sylvia focuses on the liturgy, letting her mind be carried along with the readings and
psalms. She prays sincerely for the Queen and government, for herself and her nation. At the end,
she retrieves her umbrella, shakes hands with Reverend Williams at the door and walks home, feeling
more hopeful about the world.

As she walks through the front door, she calls a greeting to Sol and then puts the kettle on for
another cup of tea. Or perhaps she will treat herself to a small glass of sherry. Too early,
perhaps? Sol patters into the kitchen, wagging his tail. He sniffs his food bowl takes a couple of
bites, and then retires back to his bed. "Not too dissimilar you and I, are we, Sol?" Sylvia pats
his head and tucks his blanket around him. Back in the kitchen, she looks in the fridge for
something for lunch.

Like Sol, she doesn't have much of an appetite. Growing up, Sunday lunch used to mean a roast with
all the trimmings, but these days she prefers a baked potato or beans on toast. Her mother would
have a fit if she knew, but since she's been dead these twenty years, Sylvia reckons she'll get away
with it. She opts for cheese on toast: perfect comfort food for a dreary October Sunday. She spreads
the newspaper out on the dining table as she eats her lunch, accompanied by *Radio 3* and Sol's
light snoring. As she wipes the corners of her mouth with a napkin (Irish linen, Selfridges), her
phone rings. Odd. She rarely gets calls these days. Perhaps Miss Ford has a new book for her? But
the library is closed on Sunday, so it can't be that. She picks up the phone.

"Sylvia Markham speaking"

"Ah, Mrs. Markham. There you are. It's Mr. Stevens here. Sorry to disturb your Sunday afternoon."

"Oh! Mr. Stevens. How nice of you to call, I ---"

"Yes, yes. Indeed. I have a rather urgent request, which can't wait until tomorrow morning, I'm
afraid."

"How can I---?"

"Well, this is all very hush-hush. Mum's the word and all that."

"Of course."

"Excellent, excellent. Well you see, we are having a special visitor tomorrow, coming in early for
an appointment before the store opens, and I shall need you and Mrs. Clarke on hand to assist."

"It would be my pleasure, Mr. Stevens. What time will you need me there?"

"Around 7.30am. I know that's a very early start for you, Mrs. Markham, but I'll be sending a car
for you at 6.45 so that you don't have to worry about public transport."

"Thank you very much, Mr. Stevens. That's kind of you."

"No - thank *you* Mrs. Markham, I know I can trust you to take very good care of our visitor."

"And, um, may I know who our mystery customer is?"

"Yes, indeed. Didn't I mention that? Princess Anne. Needs to find a couple of outfits for various
occasions this winter, opening hospitals and visiting universities and what-not."

Sylvia nearly drops the phone at this point, but manages to respond without sounding as panicky as
she feels.

"Oh! How wonderful. It will be my pleasure to assist as best I can."

"Excellent, excellent. See you tomorrow, then."

"Bright and early. Thank you for calling."

"Not at all. Good-bye, Mrs. Markham."

"Good-bye"

Sylvia slumps on to the sofa, not entirely sure whether she just dreamed the last five minutes.
Princess Anne. "Goodness me, Sol, who would have thought it? A royal customer in my department!" Sol
puts his head up for a moment at the sound of his name, and then goes back to sleep. What to do
first? So much she must prepare and very little time to do it. She must give Joyce Clarke a call.
That's the first order of business. Joyce is not only her second in command, she's also an expert at
alterations, and there may well be some needed. And then, of course, she must decide what to wear.
Best make a list, once she's called Joyce. She picks up the phone and dials the number.

"Joyce Clarke."

"Ah, Joyce, my dear, sorry to call you on a Sunday, but I have some news that can't wait..." Sylvia
relays her conversation with Mr. Stevens.

"...so you see, Joyce, I'll need you in early tomorrow, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed."

"Oooh, so exciting!" says Joyce, "I'll have my pins and tape-measure at the ready."

"Splendid. See you at 7.30am sharp."

"Looking forward to it!"

"'Bye, then."

Sylvia puts the phone down and hurries up stairs to start her preparations. She lays everything out
in the spare bedroom, so that she doesn't have to rush in the morning. The *Chanel* dress is a
given: black wool crepe that won't crease too much in the car. New pair of black tights and
black-and-white houndstooth silk scarf. Not quite *HermÃ¨s,* but it will do nicely. Her shoes have
recently been re-heeled (thank goodness!) and she'll wear her gold and pearl brooch that belonged to
her great-aunt. Perfect. She inspects her nails. Not too bad, but she gives them an extra file and
buff, and touches up her French Manicure nail polish. She adds a clean white cotton hanky (dabbed
with *Chanel No. 5*), and sets out her makeup in a row on her dressing table. When it is all done,
checked and double-checked, she runs herself a bath. As she relaxes in the warm, soapy water she
imagines the day ahead. "Yes, indeed" she thinks to herself, "I love my job."

<p style="text-align: center;">
â¦
</p>

*Monday, October 16th, 1978*

Joyce is a bundle of nerves. She is doing her best to stay calm as she brushes her hair. Her husband
brings her a mug of coffee and a couple of slices of toast. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Here you go,
you<span dir="rtl">'</span>re going to need to keep your strength up if you are going to meet a
princess!"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Thanks. I just need to get my suit on, and then I<span dir="rtl">'</span>m
good to go," she says, as she pulls back her hair with a black velvet Alice band. She adds a dab or
two of *Rive Gauche* behind her ears and dusts a little blush to her cheekbones.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>There. Now, where did I put my glasses? I had them here a moment ago..."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>In the bathroom, Joycie, where you left them!"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>What would I do without you?" Joyce laughs, and takes her suit out of its
protective cover.

She nearly fell off her chair when Sylvia told her Princess Anne was coming into the
Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> Fashion department at Selfridges. Even more surprised that the visit
was the very next day. Joyce is not sure whether that is a good or bad thing, but on balance, it has
meant that she hasn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t had time to fret about what to where or how the visit
might go. Not even time to get to the hairdressers for a wash and set. She needs to get her skates
on as a taxi is coming to pick her up in a few minutes. She takes a moment to drink her coffee and
have a few bites of toast before heading downstairs.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>How do I look?" she asks her husband, checking her reflection in the
full-length mirror.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Perfect. Fit for a queen, if I say so myself. Now, have you got everything?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>I think so...um...let me check," Joyce digs around in her handbag:
<span dir="rtl">"</span>keys...purse...handkerchief, glasses."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Watch?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Oooh, I<span dir="rtl">'</span>d forget my head if it
wasn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t screwed on!" Joyce dashes up the stairs to retrieve her watch, just as
the doorbell goes. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Coming!" she calls out, and runs down the stairs and out
to the waiting taxi. And then runs back to give her husband a quick kiss goodbye.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Good luck, Joycie" he calls after, chuckling to himself.

The traffic into town is not so bad, and Joyce is grateful that her taxi driver is not one of those
chatty types, so she can focus on the day ahead. She<span dir="rtl">'</span>s already got a few
ideas for outfits that might interest the young princess. Although, now Anne is a mum, she may be
looking for something more practical, more mumsy? Nothing worse than getting a
toddler<span dir="rtl">'</span>s sticky fingers all over your best dress. Not so strange, then, that
she would want some off the rack, ready-to-wear clothes this year? Well, whatever she needs, Joyce
is sure that Selfridges will have it. Plus, Joyce can get the alterations done in a jiffy. Perhaps
she will need some scarves and gloves as well? Silk scarves are in fashion right now and Princess
Anne does like to wear headscarves - just like her mum - Joyce has the seen the photos in
*Woman<span dir="rtl">'</span>s Weekly a*t the hairdresser<span dir="rtl">'</span>s.

Joyce picks up a few accessories from the ground floor on her way up.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Let<span dir="rtl">'</span>s see..." she says to herself, picking out some
colourful silk scarves and butter-soft leather gloves to match. As she walks up the stairs to the
first floor, Joyce is met by Sylvia, who has been pacing back and forth.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Ah! Joyce, my dear, there you are. Oh! And you have collected some scarves
and gloves on your way - splendid. I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ve pulled out some outfits to get us
going - let me show you."

Sylvia leads the way over to a clothes rail next to the changing rooms. There is a wide selection:
outdoor jackets and a couple of coats, several winter suits and dresses, as well as some separates
that might take the Princess<span dir="rtl">'</span> fancy. Joyce works her way through the rack,
appraising each piece, trying to imagine the Princess wearing it to a public function.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Perfect," says Joyce, <span dir="rtl">"</span>I<span dir="rtl">'</span>m
sure the Princess will be thrilled."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Let<span dir="rtl">'</span>s hope so," says Sylvia, straightening the collar
on a jacket, <span dir="rtl">"</span>let<span dir="rtl">'</span>s hope so..."

The lift doors open and a petite, blonde woman steps out. Behind her is Mr. Stevens, closely
followed by a serious-looking bodyguard and an equally serious-looking assistant. Mr.
Steven<span dir="rtl">'</span>s introduces Princess Anne to Sylvia and Joyce. They curtsy in unison,
Joyce wobbling a bit, and trying not to blush. The Princess gives them a perfunctory smile.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Are these the clothes?" The Princess points to the rack.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Yes, Your Royal Highness," says Sylvia, <span dir="rtl">"</span>just a few
items that might interest you. A starting place, if you will?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Good," the Princess replies, and starts to flick her way through the rack.
She pulls out a navy peacoat with brass buttons. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Hmm. Not bad. Thoughts,
Robertson?" She holds it up for her assistant.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Very smart, Ma<span dir="rtl">'</span>am." The Princess shoves it back. She
pulls out a blue tweed skirt and a high-necked blouse and holds them against herself, looking at her
reflection in the mirror.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>This season<span dir="rtl">'</span>s *Jaeger* collection,
Ma<span dir="rtl">'</span>am" says Joyce, suddenly finding her voice, <span dir="rtl">"</span>the
shorter length is all the rage..." she adds, hopefully.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>I don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t need all the rage. I need working clothes,"
snaps the Princess, and puts them both back.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>How about this red tweed by *Pringle*, Ma<span dir="rtl">'</span>am?"
suggests Sylvia, holding up a striking trouser suit, <span dir="rtl">"</span>practical and
hardwearing, plus it<span dir="rtl">'</span>s a gorgeous colour."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Ghastly," the Princess replies, barely glancing at the offending piece.
Sylvia blanches, and puts the suit back.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Perhaps you could show Her Royal Highness the winter coats? I believe there
was a lavender one you thought might appeal?" asks Mr. Stevens, helpfully.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Oh, yes, here it is, Ma<span dir="rtl">'</span>am, *Aquascutum*, beautiful
lightweight wool, warm and cosy," says Sylvia, showing the Princess.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Hmmm. Possible." She tries it on. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Robertson?"
Robertson nods and makes encouraging <span dir="rtl">"</span>mmm" sounds. The princess inspects
herself in the mirror. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Not bad. But completely impractical with the baby."

The rest of the appointment goes in a similar vein. No matter what Joyce, Sylvia and Mr. Stevens
suggest, nothing is acceptable. After half an hour of the same suggest-try-dismiss routine, the
Princess and her entourage leave empty-handed. Not so much as a pair of gloves.

Joyce and Sylvia are left wondering where on earth they went wrong. Sylvia crumples onto a chair,
her head in her hands, whilst Joyce starts to pick up the discarded items, returning them to their
proper places, although she barely knows what she is doing. She carefully places the beautiful
lavender coat back into its protective cover and hangs it up with the other new
season<span dir="rtl">'</span>s coats, sad that it did not get the consideration it deserved. She
gathers up blouses and skirts, carefully returning them to their rails, disappointed that none of
them were of any interest. She hangs up the derided red tweed. Such a shame: fabulous colour and
cut, Joyce was sure that it would appeal. The lift bell pings: Mr. Stevens has returned. Joyce
can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t quite read his expression: somewhere between grim determination and
barely contained fury. Sylvia struggles to her feet.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Ah, Mrs. Markham, please don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t get up on my account",
Mr. Stevens says, patting her on her shoulder. Sylvia sits down again.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>I<span dir="rtl">'</span>m so sorry, Mr. Stevens," she begins,
<span dir="rtl">"</span>I just don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t understand what happened. I
can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t quite believe it. I am so....."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Mrs. Markham, and you, too, Mrs. Clarke," Mr. Stevens says, addressing
Joyce, <span dir="rtl">"</span>did the very best you could. You have done Selfridges proud. You
acted knowledgeably, professionally and courteously and there is absolutely no need to apologise. I
shall be contacting Miss Robertson later this morning to discuss what happened here. In the
meantime, I suggest you both get yourselves a nice strong cup of tea, and prepare for opening."

And with that, he turns tail, leaving Joyce and Sylva looking at each other in bafflement.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Well, I never..." says Joyce.

Sylvia struggles to articulate her response: <span dir="rtl">"</span>I
don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t...I just...he thought...I should..."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Well, we still have half an hour before opening, so
let<span dir="rtl">'</span>s go and get that cuppa, shall we?"

Sylvia nods meekly and the two women make their way to the canteen for a well-earned cup of
Tetley<span dir="rtl">'</span>s.

Just before the store opens for the public, Joyce re-applies her lipstick and puts on her game face.
Monday at the Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> Fashion department unfolds in much the same way it
always does: Joyce assisting Sylvia where she can, helping customers with alterations and,
amazingly, only forgetting the location of her spectacles once (they were on her head), although she
still can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t find her tape measure.

At the end of the day, the two of them place the dust covers over the rails and racks ready for the
next morning. They collect their coats and handbags from the staff cloakroom, say their goodbyes at
the door and go their separate ways. Sylvia sets off for the bus stop, but Joyce decides to take the
scenic route to Baker Street station. She needs the twenty minutes or so to clear her head and have
a think. The day has been so busy, she hasn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t been able to process what
happened in the morning.

As she walks along, she thinks about all the lovely clothes and accessories that Sylvia had chosen,
and the more she thinks about it, the more she cannot fathom what went wrong. The lavender coat was
stunning on the Princess, and the red tweed (had she taken the time to try it on) would have looked
a picture. No, she just can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t work out how it all fell apart. Perhaps Mr.
Stevens will get some answers, but she doubts it. Miss Robertson didn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t seem
the sort to divulge any royal secrets or feel the need to explain the
Princess<span dir="rtl">'</span> attitude. Joyce is still none the wiser by the time she reaches
home.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Hello! I<span dir="rtl">'</span>m home," Joyce calls out as she comes in the
door and hangs up her coat. Her husband is watching the news on the TV, but gets up to turn it off.
<span dir="rtl">  
"</span>Well, how did it go? I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ve been dying to know how you got on."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Dreadful. Complete disaster. She hated everything...even the lavender
coat..." Joyce 's voice trails off and starts to cry.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Oh, Joycie, I<span dir="rtl">'</span>m so sorry." He puts his arms around
her, consoling her as best he can.<span dir="rtl">"</span>Why don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t I nip
down to the chippy and get us a nice bit of cod, and we<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll see if we
can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t make you feel better." He puts on his coat.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll be as quick as I can. You put your feet up and
I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll be back with supper before you know it." He gives her a hand a quick
squeeze and heads out. Joyce drys her eyes and pours herself a small glass of sherry. She takes a
couple of gulps and then puts out the plates and cutlery, grateful that she
doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t have to think about cooking supper.

Over fish and chips, Joyce and her husband discuss the morning<span dir="rtl">'</span>s events.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>So, Mr. Stevens wasn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t upset with you?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>No - that<span dir="rtl">'</span>s the funny thing. I thought I was going to
be sacked on the spot, but he was really nice about it all."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Sounds like he thought the Princess was bang out of order as well."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Yes, but why? What was the matter? Why would she be so...so...horrible to
us?

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Dunno. Didn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t you say she has a baby?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Yes - Peter. Not even a year old, I don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t think."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Well, there you go then. Perhaps she<span dir="rtl">'</span>s just worn
out."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Even so, I just can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t imagine why she would ask for
an appointment and then not buy anything. And treat us like dirt under her feet."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Perhaps you caught her on a bad day. Who knows? Can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t
be much fun being a royal. I know you get to live in a fancy house and have people wait on you hand
and foot, but it must be like living in a goldfish bowl, everyone poking their noses into your
business."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>I suppose so, but there is no need to take it out on us for
Heaven<span dir="rtl">'</span>s sake."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>True enough. I<span dir="rtl">'</span>m sorry, Joycie. But,
don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t you go thinking you are no good at your job.
You<span dir="rtl">'</span>re the best there is."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Thanks. You<span dir="rtl">'</span>re not so bad yourself."

<p style="text-align: center;">
â¦
</p>

*Tuesday, October 17th, 1978*

Alice is on the Number 36 bus on her way to work. It takes about an hour or so from her flat in
Camberwell Grove, but she enjoys having the time to herself to catch up on some reading and watch
the world go by. There's nothing like the views of London that you get from the top of a
double-decker bus. It<span dir="rtl">'</span>s a grey October morning, and the city looks grimy and
down-at-heel. Always does, this time of year, thinks Alice.

Not a lot happens in October: kids have been back at school for weeks, so Summer holidays are a
distant memory and it<span dir="rtl">'</span>s a quiet season at Selfridges before the Christmas
excitement begins. As a rule, Alice prefers to do life at breakneck speed, always busy. However, her
journey to work is the one hour of the day when she likes to take her time.

Alice enjoys working in the Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> Fashion department at Selfridges.
It<span dir="rtl">'</span>s a good team. Sylvia runs a tight ship and the other members of staff are
easy enough to get along with. Plus, they have a peach of a Saturday girl. Alice likes to think of
Sally as a girl after her own heart: works fast, keeps busy, looks after the customers, always goes
above and beyond.

Alice hasn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t always been a Senior Shop Assistant, although
she<span dir="rtl">'</span>s always been in retail, starting with an after-school and weekend job at
her parents<span dir="rtl">'</span> newsagents. Her mum used to take her <span dir="rtl">"</span>up
to Town" from time to time to visit a museum or do some shopping. Alice had absolutely loved it, and
dreamed of living in her own fabulous flat in Mayfair, spending her days shopping on Bond Street and
taking a stroll in Hyde Park.

Leaving school at sixteen, she worked at her local Boots in the cosmetics department, where, truth
be told, she spent most of her time trying out the lipsticks and the nail varnishes. After that, she
worked in a shoe shop for ten years. She didn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t much care for the work:
squirming children getting their feet fitted for Clarks or silly women trying on seven pairs of
shoes and buying nothing.

All the while, Alice lived at home with her parents. Although they appreciated the rent money and
her company, they always wanted more for her. Alice will always be grateful that her parents were
more forward-thinking than many of their generation: her mum had worked in a munitions factory
during the war, and had never wanted her daughter to get stuck at home as an unpaid care giver to
elderly parents. So, when Alice saw the ad in the local paper for shop assistants at Selfridges, her
dad helped her write an application letter straight away. She<span dir="rtl">'</span>s never looked
back.

Of course, she started at the bottom of the ladder, running errands in the Haberdashery department.
Boxes of scissors here, armfuls of cotton poplin and silk taffeta there. She worked in the Food Hall
for a couple of years (not her favourite department at Selfridges, it has to be said, although she
can effectively slice off a quarter of a pound of cheddar if called upon). She even did a stint with
Roy in Lost Property. But for the past fifteen years she has been happily ensconced in
Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> Fashions.

Sadly, she never did get that flat in Mayfair, but the small apartment that she rents in Camberwell
suits her fine. And although Mr. Right never did turn up, (there were several Mr. Wrongs), Alice is
quite content. Her parents are now long gone, but she thinks they would be happy with how things
turned out.

Alice can't wait to hear how the appointment went with Princess Anne: Joyce called on Sunday evening
to tell her about it, but didn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t call last night to fill her in on all the
details. She was probably tired. Such a shame that Monday was Alice's day off, so she
didn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t have a chance to be a part of the excitement, although with Sylvia and
Joyce leading the charge, she would hardly be needed. What those two don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t
know about ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> fashion isn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t worth knowing.

She wonders what the princess might have bought? She flicks through the pages of the latest *Vogue*.
At 75p it<span dir="rtl">'</span>s one of Alice<span dir="rtl">'</span>s little luxuries that she
allows herself from time to time. It will have to be Spam fritters rather than lamb chops for
supper, but she is happy to make the sacrifice. She smiles at the
*<span dir="rtl">"</span>Selfridges naturally..."* advertisement next to the contents page. Gorgeous
*Vera Reisser* dress - shame it is in black-and-white, the real thing is quite lovely.

Always a page or two of royal tittle-tattle in *Vogue*; this time it<span dir="rtl">'</span>s an
engagement portrait for the future Duke and Duchess of Westminster. Alice frowns at the photo of the
beaming couple. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Goodness me," she thinks, <span dir="rtl">"</span>that
blouse is shocking." The high-necked, purple satin number is so severe that the poor
soon-to-be-duchess<span dir="rtl">'</span> head appears stuck to her fianc<span dir="rtl">Ã©'</span>s
shoulder. Someone should have told her. Joyce would. She might seem absent-minded and flighty to
some, but she will always advise the customer honestly, especially when she knows they are about to
make a fashion faux-pas. Sylvia would expect nothing less, come to think.

Alice thumbs through the pages, coming to her favourite part: the fashion photo shoot. She laughs
out loud. How appropriate: the photos show a model in cowboy boots and Spanish riding hat. She
can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t help but imagine Princess Anne in some of the outfits, although those
shoulder pads would probably not be Her Royal Highness<span dir="rtl">'</span> cup of tea.

The bus rumbles on through the morning rush-hour, and Alice hops off at Marble Arch. She marches
quickstep to the staff entrance of Selfridges, using the back streets to get to the store, far from
the madding crowd and tourists going at snail<span dir="rtl">'</span>s pace. She deposits her coat
and handbag in her locker, and takes a moment to re-apply a dab of rouge to her cherubic cheeks and
readjusts a couple of pins in her French pleat. The final touch is the addition of her trademark
rhinestone clips - a present from a long-departed Mr. Wrong. Terrible table manners, but excellent
taste in jewellery. <span dir="rtl">"</span>You<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll do," she says to herself
in the mirror, and makes her way up the marble staircase to the first floor. Although Alice is no
spring chicken, and has got rather <span dir="rtl">"</span>broad around the beam" (as her mum would
say), she can still zip up the stairs without getting out of breath. Years of practice, she thinks.
Sylvia is on the floor already, removing the dust covers.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Morning, Sylvia!" Alice calls as she makes her way over to the cash desk,
<span dir="rtl">"</span>how was yesterday?" Sylvia smiles half-heartedly in acknowledgement and
continues with her task.

Odd, thinks Alice, but, knowing Sylvia, she<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll chat when
she<span dir="rtl">'</span>s ready. Joyce arrives, gives Alice a small wave, and then disappears
into the alterations room.

Curiouser and curiouser, thinks Alice. Clearly, yesterday<span dir="rtl">'</span>s appointment did
not go to plan. Best not to ask and leave it to Sylvia and Joyce to tell her about it when they have
a moment.

Alice busies herself at the sales desk, checking that everything is in order. She straightens out
the yellow plastic bags and smoothes the pile of tissue paper. Sylvia has already set the cash
register up for the day, so all she can really do now is wait for the store to open.

Alice<span dir="rtl">'</span>s day jogs along nicely. She has lunch with Sandra, one of the store
detectives. Sandra has always got a story to tell, although she always changes the names to protect
the guilty. Sandra has heard rumours of the royal visit, but Alice has got nothing to offer.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Not a dicky-bird, Sand. Sylvia and Joyce have barely said three words to me
all morning. I dread to think what happened."

Alice has just enough time to wolf down a bowl of soup and a cheese sandwich, before she pops to the
bank for some cash before her lunch hour runs out. She nips into the Midland Bank and gets in the
queue, writing her cheque for <span dir="rtl">"</span>cash" as she stands in line to save time.
Being a stickler for good customer service, she is irritated by the two bank tellers who are
chatting away to each other as they work. When she gets to the front of the queue, Alice hands over
her cheque and asks for two five-pound notes and a ten. The teller nods briefly, and carries on his
conversation with his colleague. Alice can feel her mouth twisting in frustration.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>How would you like your cash, Miss?" Asks the young man.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>If you had been listening to me instead of discussing last
night<span dir="rtl">'</span>s football with your chum you might know already. Two fives, one ten."

The teller blushes, and hands over the correct cash, mumbling a <span dir="rtl">"</span>Sorry."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>So I should think," says Alice, and turns on her heels. She is out of the
door and half way up Oxford Street before the man can say, <span dir="rtl">"</span>Next customer."

Back in the Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> Fashion department, the afternoon plods by. Tuesday
afternoons are often quiet in October, so Alice spends some time cleaning out the drawer of the cash
desk. All manner of clutter has accumulated over the months: half-used biros, safety pins, a packet
of Polo mints and various scraps of paper. Alice goes through the detritus, chucking most of it in
the bin. Once the drawer is tidy, she takes some time to sort the coat hangers that have piled up in
a large cardboard box behind the counter. She sorts them into their various categories and removes
the plastic size tags. That job completed, she refills the stapler and replaces the till roll, even
though the pink line has only just started to appear.

Sylvia and Joyce have been tight-lipped all day. Sylvia gave a one line answer to her query
(<span dir="rtl">"</span>Fine") and Joyce, unusually, has spent most of the day hidden away, sorting
out stock and arranging alterations. Alice decides that discretion is the better part of valour and
lets the matter drop. Sylvia and Joyce will tell her all about it if, and when they want to. Alice
is glad to hear the, <span dir="rtl">"</span>*Selfridges is now closing...*" announcement on the
tannoy, and, with no customers in sight, she begins her closing routine.

On the bus home, Alice doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t feel like looking through her *Vogue*
magazine; she ponders the days<span dir="rtl">'</span> events. She feels sorry for Sylvia and Joyce.
Obviously the appointment with the Princess went horribly wrong, and they
don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t want to discuss it. Such a shame. She noticed that Mr Stevens, the
store manager, came down to have a brief conversation with Sylvia in the afternoon. Alice was too
far away to hear what Mr Stevens was saying, but he didn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t seem to be
reprimanding her - quite the opposite. Sylvia nodded and took it all in. After he left, she had a
short tÃªte-Ã -tÃªteÂ with Joyce, and then carried on as usual, just quieter and more withdrawn.

Going over Vauxhall Bridge, Alice watches the lights of the barges making their way down to the
dockyards, as they have done for centuries. Funny how kings and queens (and princesses) have come
and gone, but the Thames continues on its way, unimpressed and unperturbed. Perhaps
that<span dir="rtl">'</span>s a good way to respond to those people who believe themselves to be a
cut above the rest of us? <span dir="rtl">"</span>Gosh, there<span dir="rtl">'</span>s a deep
thought for a Tuesday evening", thinks Alice, and opens her copy of *Vogue.*

<p style="text-align: center;">
â¦
</p>

*Wednesday, October 18th, 1978*

Sandra is watching and waiting at the fragrance counter. There<span dir="rtl">'</span>s a young
woman who has caught her eye. Shortish, late teens, strawberry blond, chiffon headscarf.
She<span dir="rtl">'</span>s not your usual Selfridges customer, which is why she stands out. Plus,
she is watching the staff, not the merchandise: another red flag.

Sandra is trying on a couple of fragrances - well, not actually trying them. She has perfected the
little act of (not) spraying perfume on to her wrist, smelling it, making a face and putting it
back, all the while keeping her eyes on a suspect. When she first started, she would spray on
several different fragrances for real, but came home <span dir="rtl">"</span>smelling like a
tart<span dir="rtl">'</span>s boudoir" according to her mum. So now, she pretends. Apart from the
*Chanel No. 19,* which she loves. The teenager she is watching thinks better of it, and continues on
towards Haberdashery. Sandra makes a quick call to the control room, that has a bank of grainy TV
screens relaying CCTV from around the store. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Hi, Jeff, yes look out for a
girl in Haberdashery...just been watching her in Perfumes. Teenager probably, raincoat, headscarf.
Can you see her?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Not yet", replies Jeff, <span dir="rtl">"</span>but
I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll keep an eye out. Thanks, Sand."

Sandra goes back to her undercover work, continuing through the cosmetics section, working on her
pretend browsing technique, always on the lookout for thieves and pickpockets. She manages to avoid
young Jackie, who is spraying unsuspecting customers with a new after-shave that is on promotion.
Jackie knows better than to try that with Sandra: the last time she gave Jackie a piece of her mind
when she met her in the staff cloakroom. Hasn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t got the sense she was born
with, that one, thinks Sandra.

She follows an elderly couple for a few minutes until they reach the lift.
She<span dir="rtl">'</span>s noticed the old woman<span dir="rtl">'</span>s handbag is open, asking
for the nearest pickpocket to help themselves. She discreetly points the situation out to the lift
operator who gives her a wink to let her know that he<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll have a word. Sandra
finds it incredible how many people will wander around a busy department store with their money in
easy reach of a pickpocket. The worst are the young tourists, who leave their valuables in their
backpacks, and then wonder why their stuff has vanished into thin air. But, today is pretty quiet,
although it will soon be half-term, which seems to be the cue for mums to bring their little
darlings up to London to see the sights and shop on Oxford Street.

Sandra<span dir="rtl">'</span>s been a store detective at Selfridges for a few years now and
she<span dir="rtl">'</span>s a dab hand at spotting a shoplifter or pickpocket at 50 yards. Not that
difficult when you know what to look for. Shoplifters at Selfridges are a constant nuisance, but
Sandra and her team of co-workers do their best to keep the losses at bay. The main thing, she has
learned, is to blend into the background, so that would-be thieves don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t
notice her. This is fairly easily achieved since Sandra has little to distinguish her. Average
height, neither thin nor stout, she has the kind of face that doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t stand
out in the crowd, which is exactly what is needed. She does, however, dress like a Selfridges
customer, with a smart raincoat, large leather bag and fashionable pumps. As a result, shoplifters
pay her no heed, until, of course, she puts a firm hand on their arm and calls Security.

Sandra moves on to the gloves and scarves, taking an interest in the new colours for Autumn. Pretty.
Perhaps she will get a silk scarf for her mum for Christmas? That Selfridges discount really does
come in useful. She carries on her way, scanning the customers for any outliers.

It<span dir="rtl">'</span>s quiet today, so she is not expecting much action; thieves work best in
crowds. Christmas can be a nightmare, but Selfridges brings in extra security for the couple of
weeks beforehand and then again afterwards, for the Boxing Day sales. Sandra loves the store at
Christmas. Selfridges seem to outdo themselves every year. She remembers coming up to town with her
parents to see the Christmas windows at Selfridges when she was a kid, staring in wonder at the
magical displays. Sandra wonders what the theme will be this year, although she has caught glimpse
of several giant nutcrackers. Last year it was pantomimes: *Cinderella, Jack and the Beanstalk,
Mother Goose*...marvellous. Mind you, it takes a small army of window dressers and designers the
best part of a year to put it together.

Sandra continues on towards the hosiery section. Always a favourite with opportunist shoplifters:
grab a handful of nylons and make a run for the nearest exit. So annoying. Anyway, today the coast
seems clear, but Sandra notices someone lurking in a corner, behind a pillar. The big coat is the
giveaway this time. Granted, its mid-October, but it<span dir="rtl">'</span>s not that cold, and
that coat must be three sizes too big. Sandra fakes an interest in the sheer stockings, whilst
keeping aware of the Coat Woman<span dir="rtl">'</span>s movements. Still lurking.

Sandra moves on to the thick tights, flipping through the different sizes, paying not a jot of
attention to the products but checking for movement out of the corner of her eye. She
doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t need to wait long, as Coat Woman makes her move, snatching as many
packets of tights as she can and stuffing them into her coat pockets.

Unfortunately for her, Sandra had already guessed the Coat Woman's exit route and blocks her way,
right by the doors, so there is no question that she intended to leave without paying. She tries to
dodge, but Sandra is too quick for her, and swiftly has her firmly by the arm. As discreetly as
possible, she guides Coat Woman to the Security office.

Sandra waits with the shoplifter, while Jeff (Head of Security) calls the police. Meanwhile, Coat
Woman wails about how she took the tights by mistake, and that she forgot to pay.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Heard it all before\", says Sandra, <span dir="rtl">"</span>best you save
your breath to cool your porridge. The police are on their way, you can tell them all about it when
they get here." Coat Woman scowls and folds her arms. <span dir="rtl">"</span>No use getting shirty
with me, dearie, I saw what you did."

The police in question, WPC Jennings and PC Marshall, turn up faster than Sandra was expecting,
since they<span dir="rtl">'</span>d been finishing up another shoplifting call at John Lewis.
Jennings takes one look at Coat Woman and rolls her eyes: <span dir="rtl">"</span>You again, Mavis?
What have you been up to now?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Nothing", huffs Mavis, <span dir="rtl">"</span>I was going to pay..."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Yeah, right," says Jennings, opening her notebook,
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Well, you\'re in serious trouble now, Mavis. We let you off with a warning
last time, but now we<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll have to take you down to the station." Mavis puffs
out her cheeks and scowls some more.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>We<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll take it from here, thanks, Sandra," says
Marshall, taking Mavis by the arm, <span dir="rtl">"</span>we<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll drop by
later for a statement."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Fine by me," says Sandra,
<span dir="rtl">"</span>I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll see you later." Sandra picks up her bag,
tightens her raincoat and heads back into the store for some more fake shopping.

At lunchtime, Sandra meets up with her friend, Alice. Over ham sandwiches and a couple of custard
tarts, they chat about their respective mornings.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Silly woman, going around in a coat the size of a two-man tent, what did she
think was going to happen?" says Sandra, <span dir="rtl">"</span>She<span dir="rtl">'</span>s in hot
water now, and no mistake. All for six pairs of 20 denier."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Never ceases to amaze me," says Alice, <span dir="rtl">"</span>the trouble
people get themselves in for no good reason." She considers this thought as she savours the last
mouthfuls of her custard tart.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Anyway, I<span dir="rtl">'</span>d best get on.
They<span dir="rtl">'</span>ve been having trouble in the toy department and asked me to pop up
there to see if I can help. See you later."

Sandra places her tray in the rack and heads to the staff cloakroom for a quick touch up of her
lipstick and powder before the afternoon shift. She takes a moment to look in the mirror. Not bad
for forty-three, she thinks, a few grey hairs appearing, but she<span dir="rtl">'</span>s not in bad
nick. She ties a headscarf round her chin and puts on some gloves. Somehow that makes her feel a bit
more mumsy, more in character for the toy department.

Weaving her way through the *Sindy* dolls and *Lego*, Sandra wonders about what she might get her
niece for Christmas this year. She<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll need to call her sister-in-law since
she can never remember how old Tracey is. Six? Seven? Something like that. She should really write
it down. Sweet little girl: button nose and cute pigtails. Loves rabbits and anything pink.
Everything is quiet, <span dir="rtl">"</span>More like a library than a toy department," Sandra
thinks to herself, although the place will be packed next week with the school holidays. She decides
to go down to the second floor: lingerie and swimwear - another stop on her usual rounds.

This time of year, there is always more lingerie than swimwear: lots of granny nighties - floral
flannel affairs that Sandra would not be seen dead in. And tartan pyjamas.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Who wears tartan pyjamas?" Sandra wonders as she heads towards the bras and
knickers.

As she passes the *Triumph* section, the advert plays in her head: *<span dir="rtl">"</span>Triumph
has the bra for the way you are..."* Sandra smiles to herself, and hums the catchy tune as she does
a little browsing through the boxes of bras. As she does so, she notices a man hanging around the
*Playtex* section. Not so unusual around Christmas or Valentine<span dir="rtl">'</span>s Day. Also
not unexpected if he is trailing after a wife or girlfriend. He is not making eye-contact with any
of the other customers or sales assistants, but that may be down to discomfort. (Precious few men
who can confidently stride through a lingerie department, Sandra has noted.) Definitely something
off with this one, she reckons, and moves towards the swimsuits section to get a better view.

The man is quite tall - she can see him over the top of the racks of underwear - middle-aged,
glasses, ill-fitting toupee. Nothing *that* remarkable about him, apart from looking shifty in the
Lingerie department of Selfridges. She watches as he moves towards the nightwear, and carefully,
checking to see if anyone is watching, he helps himself to several silky nighties and stuffs them in
his coat. Sandra is almost impressed: the man has the skill and the nerve to carry off such a feat.
But, he wasn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t banking on Sandra, who is now watching where he goes, to see
if he is going to walk past the cash desk without paying.

She follows him, curious to see which route he might take to make his getaway. Unfortunately (well,
fortunately as it turns out), he does a quick shoulder check and spots Sandra. For some reason
(Sandra never does find out) he decides to hang on to his ill-gotten gains, rather than dumping it
there and then, and makes a run for it. He doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t get far. It seems that
*Playtex* "*Cross Your Heart*" bras really do lift and separate: the man trips over the display, is
airborne for a second or two and then parts company with his hairpiece, which misses Sandra by
inches. He lands, in a tangle of bras and knickers, like something from a TV sitcom.

Sandra can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t help herself, and dissolves into giggles. As do the two shop
assistants who come running when they hear the commotion.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Well, sir," says Sandra, composing herself,
<span dir="rtl">"</span>you<span dir="rtl">'</span>ve got yourself in a right pickle. Best get you
up and make sure you haven<span dir="rtl">'</span>t broken anything."

The man blinks a few times and struggles to his feet. Sandra carefully hands him his toupee, which
he sets on his head. Backwards. As luck would have it, at this moment, PC Marshall and WPC Jennings
step out of the lift.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Ah, there you are, Sandra," says Jennings, we were just coming to find you.
Looks like you might need our assistance."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>He<span dir="rtl">'</span>s all yours," says Sandra.

<p style="text-align: center;">
â¦
</p>

*Thursday, October 19th, 1978*

Roy is sorting through the pile of items from the previous day. The Lost Property (and Lost Persons)
department, on the 4th floor of Selfridges, is always busy. It never fails to surprise Roy just how
absent-minded folks can be. First job of the day is to catalogue any items brought up to Lost
Property overnight by the cleaning staff - all manner of goodies left in the changing rooms and
toilets.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Now, what do we have this morning?" Roy asks no-one in particular. Three
umbrellas: two black, one floral. He makes a note on his clipboard. Those will go with the rest of
Roy<span dir="rtl">'</span>s Umbrella Collection, which gets donated once every couple of months to
charity. Next: one set of keys, with a note from the cleaning staff: *Found in Ladies WC, (3rd
floor)*. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Best write a tag for these", thinks Roy,
<span dir="rtl">"</span>looks like a set of house keys - someone will be back looking for them." He
takes a fresh brown luggage tag and writes down the details:

Description: *Two Yale house keys, brown leather fob with sun design*

Found: *Ladies WC, 3rd Floor, Tuesday, 17th*

Date: *Wednesday, 18th October, 1978*

Found by: *Cleaning staff*

Roy places the keys in a box under the counter and moves to the next items. Roy likes to work at his
own pace: <span dir="rtl">"</span>Slow and steady wins the race" is his motto. From his years at
Selfridges he knows there is a story behind every piece of lost property, and he likes to do what he
can to reunite the owners with their belongings. He carries on resolutely through the remaining
items: one pair of sunglasses (yellow), four pairs of reading glasses (his record is 12 in one day)
and a man<span dir="rtl">'</span>s watch.

Having recorded and stowed these, his next task is to catalogue the purchases that people have left
behind - some from Selfridges, others from shops on Oxford Street. He usually gets anxious phone
calls about those not long after the store opens: <span dir="rtl">"</span>Did anyone hand in a John
Lewis bag with a red jumper in it? I think I left it in the ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> loos...."
Today he only has three: two Selfridges and one Debenhams, collectively housing two pairs of tights,
a pair of socks, a wall clock, a bar of soap and an electric blanket.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>It<span dir="rtl">'</span>s like the *Generation Game,*" Roy says to himself
as he labels and stores the items, putting on the announcer<span dir="rtl">'</span>s voice:
<span dir="rtl">"</span>And on the conveyer belt tonight we have: a men<span dir="rtl">'</span>s
watch...an electric blanket...a wall clock...a bar of soap..." No cuddly toy, though. But he did
have one of those on Saturday. Made his day to see that picked up by a little boy, watching his face
turn from pale and frightened to a great big beaming smile.

Roy has worked in lost property in one form or another for twenty years. He used to work for London
Underground, but prefers the smaller set up at Selfridges. He<span dir="rtl">'</span>s worked his
way up the ranks and is now Manager of Lost Property. And not just Lost Property:
he<span dir="rtl">'</span>s responsible for Lost Persons as well, which are usually husbands who
have been shopping with their wives on the ground floor and have got themselves turned around. Or
kiddies who have lost their mums and dads: they<span dir="rtl">'</span>re often brought up to Roy so
he can put a message out on the tannoy:

*<span dir="rtl">"</span>Could the mother of Michael Gregory please come to the Lost Persons
department on the 4th floor where her son is waiting for her? Thank you."*

He<span dir="rtl">'</span>s noted that husbands are very grumpy with their wives when they are
finally claimed: <span dir="rtl">"</span>Where the bloody hell have you been?
I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ve been stuck here for 20 minutes!" But children are always overjoyed to
see their parents. And parents their children. Nothing worse than losing your kid in a big shop like
Selfridges. Roy can still recall what it felt like to lose his lad on the beach at Blackpool for
what seemed like an eternity. He found him after a frantic search, happily patting the donkeys and
feeding them sugar lumps without a care in the world. So when he can reunite a kid with their
parents he couldn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t be happier. Best feeling there is.

After twenty years he can safely say he has seen it all. The stories he could tell - especially
about the unmentionables that people leave behind and never, ever claim. Those get wrapped in
newspaper and buried at the bottom of the bin, under no circumstances are they to see the light of
day again. People are strange, that<span dir="rtl">'</span>s all he can say.

Roy puts on his small transistor radio, always tuned to *BBC Radio 2.* That Terry Wogan is very good
company, he reckons. Chirpy chappy, makes the day jog along a bit faster. The phone rings.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Selfridges Lost Property" he answers.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Oh, sorry to trouble you. My husband thinks he may have left his watch in
the Gents yesterday - took it off to wash his hands..."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Could you describe the watch for me, Madam?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>It<span dir="rtl">'</span>s quite plain, really, just a regular round face
and a black leather strap, but it is engraved with his initials: *RJM*. Does that help?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Do you mind holding? I think I might have that here...." He checks the back
of the watch handed in overnight. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Yes, yes, I have your
husband<span dir="rtl">'</span>s watch in my hand, just as you described."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Oh, that<span dir="rtl">'</span>s wonderful, thank you so much. He will be
pleased.<span dir="rtl">"  
"</span>All in a day<span dir="rtl">'</span>s work, Madam. Now, do you want to come in and collect
it, or would you like us to send it back to you?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll come and get it later today, if
that<span dir="rtl">'</span>s alright?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Of course, Madam. I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll have it ready for you. Now if
I could just take down your details...."

Roy goes to the back office to put on the kettle. Now that he has cleared the overnight arrivals,
and found a home for at least one item, he can take a moment and make a cup of tea. Milk, two
sugars, in his favourite <span dir="rtl">"</span>World<span dir="rtl">'</span>s Best Dad" mug, a
Christmas present from his son. It makes him smile. He<span dir="rtl">'</span>s proud of Kevin, who
is in his last year at secondary school. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Done well, that boy, though I
don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t know where he gets his brains from," he tells
Stan,<span dir="rtl">"</span>must be on his Mum<span dir="rtl">'</span>s side." Kevin is even
talking about applying for university. Well, that would be a turn up for the books. As he waits for
the kettle to boil, he decides to tackle the pile of umbrellas that is taking up an inordinate
amount of space in the storeroom. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Time for you lot to go," he mutters,
wrestling an armful of them, <span dir="rtl">"</span>can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t have you
cluttering up the place if your owners don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t want you back. Now,
don<span dir="rtl">'</span>t you go taking it personally, I<span dir="rtl">'</span>m sending you to
where you can do a bit of good." He places them in a cardboard box, seals it up with tape and writes
on the top: *Charity - umbrellas x 25*. He<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll give the box to Stan when he
next sees him. He makes a note on his clipboard to remind himself. The kettle boils, and he makes
himself a nice cup of PG Tips complete with two Rich Tea biscuits (his favourite).

The rest of the morning is taken up with the usual fare, but just before lunch he gets a call from
Sylvia in Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> Fashion:

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Hello Roy, Sylvia here. I have quite the situation going on. I have a mother
her who is absolutely beside herself. She<span dir="rtl">'</span>s lost her little girl called Anna,
and I<span dir="rtl">'</span>m wondering if you have her?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Sorry, no, Sylvia. But let me take some details and
I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll keep an eye out." Poor woman, Roy thinks to himself. Only have to turn
your back for a minute and they<span dir="rtl">'</span>re gone. Hopefully someone will see her
wandering and bring her up to Lost Persons.

He goes to his office and opens up his sandwiches: cheese and pickle today. Not his favourite (that
would be ham and mustard) but not bad at all. He opens his newspaper to the sport section. Not
that<span dir="rtl">'</span>s he<span dir="rtl">'</span>s particularly interested in the football or
the racing, but the news is so grim these days what with strikes and politics
he<span dir="rtl">'</span>d rather not read it. His lunch completed, Roy decides to take a short
stroll; he leaves a sign saying, <span dir="rtl">"</span>Back at 1pm", and makes a quick exit. He
likes to take a walk around Manchester Square on his lunch hour, just to stretch his legs and get
some air. Today the weather is not too bad: cloudy, but no rain forecast. But then, if he needed an
umbrella, he<span dir="rtl">'</span>d have plenty to chose from.

Roy is always surprised how quiet the streets are, once you get away from the hustle and bustle of
Oxford Street. Just a couple of streets back and there<span dir="rtl">'</span>s hardly a soul about.
Sometimes he<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll go to the Wallace Collection (fabulous museum, free
admission) and pay a visit to his old friend, *The Laughing Cavalier.* Who
isn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t actually laughing, Roy always tells people. Smiling, perhaps. At any
rate, the painting is a favourite of his, and Roy likes to compare his
<span dir="rtl">"</span>collection" to that of Lady Wallace<span dir="rtl">'</span>s. Today, though,
he wants to get back to his office to see if Anna has turned up, so he hurries on, leaving the
enigmatic soldier for another day.

Roy takes the lift to the 4th floor; as he passes the toy department, he wonders if he
shouldn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t take a quick scout, just to make sure Anna
hasn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t found her way up to the doll's houses and teddy bears. The department
is not that busy, and all the children he encounters are with their mums or dads. Well, it was worth
a shot.

He goes back to Lost Property and removes the sign at the front. Whilst he was out, a package has
been left for him: a yellow Selfridges bag containing a length of cotton fabric and a *Butterick*
pattern for a flouncy skirt. He takes off his jacket, puts on the kettle, and writes out a tag for
the item, placing it on the shelf behind the counter before making himself another cup of tea.

The phone rings. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Selfridges Lost Property." Roy picks up a pencil and his
clipboard. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Two men<span dir="rtl">'</span>s dress shirts...white...and you
think you lost them last Friday?<span dir="rtl">'</span> he makes a note, <span dir="rtl">"</span>in
a Selfridges bag with the receipt, right...could you spell that for me?
C---h---i---s---h---o---l---m...m for mother? Got it. Mr. Chisholm...and do you have a number
I can reach you on...?"

As he notes down the number, and repeats it back to the shirtless Mr. Chisholm, he sees a large pair
of brown eyes and a pink Alice band appear above the counter. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Thank you, Mr
Chisholm I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll be in touch...." He peers over the edge of the counter and sees
a small girl staring back up at him. He smiles. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Now, you
wouldn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t go by the name of Anna, would you?"

<p style="text-align: center;">
â¦
</p>

*Friday, October 20th, 1978*

Stan is checking the goods lift. It<span dir="rtl">'</span>s his first job of the day, to make sure
the lift is in tip-top working condition, clean and ready for use. He gives the hinges of the
expandable gate a couple of drops of *WD40*, and shines up the panel with a touch of *Brasso* and a
duster. <span dir="rtl">"</span>There, that<span dir="rtl">'</span>s better," he surveys his work,
<span dir="rtl">"</span>start as you mean to go on."

If Stan is asked about is job he always gives the same answer: <span dir="rtl">"</span>It has its
ups and downs." Given that he is the goods lift operator, this is not surprising.
He<span dir="rtl">'</span>s done the job for a good few years, and has seen several General Managers
(the <span dir="rtl">"</span>Guvnors", as he calls them) come and go. Mr. Stevens is not so bad. He
lets Stan get on with his job without too much interference. His job, on paper, is relatively
straightforward: making sure goods are conveyed to all the departments in a safe and timely manner.
Most deliveries are run-of-the mill: boxes of merchandise to fill the racks and shelves throughout
the store. The furniture department has its own storeroom on the 4th floor, so at least he does not
have to manoeuvre huge pieces of furniture in and out.

Today, he has a couple of sizeable crates for cosmetics and perfumes on the ground floor.
It<span dir="rtl">'</span>s where a good portion of Selfridges profit is made, so Stan always
prioritises their deliveries, much to the chagrin of Sylvia in Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span>
Fashion on the 1st. He bundles the crates into the lift, carefully closes the double gates and
presses the button for <span dir="rtl">"</span>G". He is met by Jackie, the Senior Sales Assistant
on Perfume, who guides him through to the *Dior* counter. Jackie opens the crate with delight, as if
it is Christmas morning. Never fails to amaze Stan how twelve cartons of fancy perfume can have that
kind of appeal.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Thanks, Stan. You<span dir="rtl">'</span>re a marvel," says Jackie.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>If you say so," says Stan, and whisks his dolly back to the lift, whistling
as he goes.

He doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t like to hang around on the sales floor, as he might have to
interact with customers. He<span dir="rtl">'</span>s happy enough having a chat with the sales staff
or window dressers, but he generally likes to keep himself to himself and avoid customers at all
costs. It<span dir="rtl">'</span>s not that he doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t like customers per se,
well, they pay his wages, so he has to like them, really. No, it<span dir="rtl">'</span>s all the,
<span dir="rtl">"</span>customer is always right" and bowing and scraping that goes on. Rubs him up
the wrong way. Stan doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t think the customer is always right at all, in
fact, from what he sees, customers can be very wrong. But he keeps shtum about all that, preferring
his own company and getting his work done without any fuss.

Back in the storeroom there is a new delivery from the warehouse for Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span>
Fashion. He puts in a call to Sylvia: <span dir="rtl">"</span>Hello, Mrs. Markham, (Stan never calls
Sylvia by her first name), <span dir="rtl">"</span>I have a large delivery for you....yes, woolies
and coats, I think...yes, I can bring it up to you straight away...yes, I<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll
be there in two shakes." He steers the boxes into the lift and shuts the gates, pressing
<span dir="rtl">"</span>1" with his elbow as he steadies his cargo.

Although well into his fifties, Stan is as fit as a butcher<span dir="rtl">'</span>s dog. He was an
amateur boxer in his youth, and still maintains his thickset stature. He might be on the short side,
but he can hold his own. <span dir="rtl">"</span>Wouldn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t want to meet you in
a dark alley," Roy often jokes. Truth be told, Stan would rather avoid any physical altercations,
preferring to walk away from a fight than to step in and knock seven bells out of an opponent.

As he steps out of the lift on the first floor with Sylvia<span dir="rtl">'</span>s boxes,
he<span dir="rtl">'</span>s greeted by Alice, who directs him to the store room, as if he
doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t know the way. He says nothing, nods and smiles and drops off the
goods as requested. Perhaps Alice thinks he<span dir="rtl">'</span>s forgotten, after all,
he<span dir="rtl">'</span>s only made deliveries to the Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> Fashion
department every working day for more years than he cares to remember. Although, he reasons, Alice,
who loves to be busy, is probably bored witless on a quiet Friday morning. Probably gave her
something to do.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Thanks-so-much-Stan-that<span dir="rtl">'</span>s-good-of-you," says Alice,
at her breakneck speed.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Think nothing of it," says Stan, wheeling his dolly back to the lift.

Back at the storeroom, he finds a note requesting a delivery to be taken to the Toy Department on
the 4th. Huge boxes of *Meccano* and *Lego* sets are waiting to go up. Stan loads them on to the
lift without any trouble, and trundles them over to their final destination. While his on the 4th,
he drops by Roy to pick up a box.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Time for a cuppa?" asks Roy.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Best be on my way."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Mind how you go."

Roy hands over the box of umbrellas destined for the charity shop. It<span dir="rtl">'</span>s one
of Stan<span dir="rtl">'</span>s side projects - to keep track of the items for charity.
He<span dir="rtl">'</span>s somehow become the go-to person for finding homes for stuff that would
otherwise go to waste or be thrown away. Some of the out-of-date food goes to the homeless shelter
in St. Martin-in-the-Field; lost property items that have not been collected for a couple of months
get sent to various charity shops. Staff members also drop items into him that might find a good
home - only last week Joyce passed on a couple of her husband<span dir="rtl">'</span>s old winter
jackets.

Stan tries to divvy up the goods as fairly as he can: some to Cancer Research, some to the RSPCA,
some to the Salvation Army. He finds it hard to see the men sleeping rough under the arches at
Embankment on his way home, wondering what might have happened to him if he
hadn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t taken up boxing as a kid. Somehow the manager at the gym turned a
sacred and mouthy teenager into a half-decent boxer, instilling some much needed discipline and hope
into his young life. Without it he wonders if he would have been able to hold down a full-time job,
and might have ended up like those poor blokes he sees making homes out of cardboard and a couple of
blankets, dependent on whatever charity handouts they can get to keep going.

Stan<span dir="rtl">'</span>s next job is another delivery for the Ground Floor: several boxes of
accessories - scarves, hats and gloves ready for the Winter season. As he is just about to close the
doors, Sandra, knocks on the outside.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Any chance of a lift to the Ground, Stan? Jeff has spotted a bloke in
Haberdashery acting strange. I<span dir="rtl">'</span>d best go and take a look."

<span dir="rtl">"'</span>Course, Sand. Hop in."

The Ground floor is busy with customers - the Friday lunchtime rush of office workers doing some
shopping on Oxford Street before returning to the suburbs for the weekend. Stan delivers the boxes
and gives Sandra a half-wave as she heads towards Haberdashery. He manages to dodge Jackie, who is
busy promoting a new after-shave and spraying unsuspecting gentlemen in her path.
<span dir="rtl">"</span>Silly girl," thinks Stan, reasoning that there are precious few men who
would fall for that move. But, as he further reasons, customers are a strange lot, so perhaps Jackie
will be in luck.

He takes the lift back down to the storeroom, to see what<span dir="rtl">'</span>s next. Joan, one
of the window dressers is grappling with a couple of mannequins.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Give us a hand, would you Stan? I need to get these up to
Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> Fashion quick smart."

<span dir="rtl">"'</span>Course, Joanie," says Stan, refraining from any mannequin jokes - Joan has
heard them all before, thank you very much. Between them, they manage to get the mannequins into the
lift, and then out on to the shop floor, where, according to Sylvia, they will be decked out in the
latest tweed and cashmere ensembles for discerning ladies of a certain age. Stan helps Joan set them
down, while Sylvia directs the traffic: <span dir="rtl">"</span>Ah, a little to the right,
yes....and if you can move her right arm slightly forwards...yes, and then move the other
one<span dir="rtl">'</span>s leg further back..." Stan leaves them to it and returns to the
sanctuary of the storeroom.

At lunchtime, Stan takes a break from the Selfridges canteen, and treat himself to a swift half and
a pub lunch at the *Three Tuns*. This is his usual Friday routine, something to celebrate the end of
the week and the start of the weekend. The landlord has poured his half of lager before he reaches
the bar: <span dir="rtl">"</span>There you go, Stan, your Friday usual.
What<span dir="rtl">'</span>s it to be for lunch? We<span dir="rtl">'</span>ve got a nice steak and
kidney pie or do you fancy a ploughman<span dir="rtl">'</span>s?"

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Pie and chips, thanks," says Stan, taking a seat at the bar.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Coming up."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Cheers. Your very good health," says Stan, raising his glass to the
landlord.

Stan likes to sit at the bar. He can have a chat with the bar staff, or just watch the world go by.
Both suit him fine. The homemade pie hits the spot, and Stan takes the long route back to
Selfridges<span dir="rtl">'</span> staff entrance, enjoying the quiet of the back streets. Just the
afternoon to go, and then he has the weekend to relax and put his feet up.

Back in the main storeroom, Stan makes himself a mug of coffee, and checks the list for the
afternoon deliveries. Three boxes for Ladies<span dir="rtl">'</span> Fashion (what do they do with
it all?) and half a dozen smaller ones for Cosmetics. Shouldn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t take long,
but he<span dir="rtl">'</span>ll have his coffee first, since he still has a few minutes of his
lunch hour left. He<span dir="rtl">'</span>s not the sort of man to watch the clock, but
fair<span dir="rtl">'</span>s fair. He<span dir="rtl">'</span>s worked through his lunch hour often
enough, eating a sandwich on the go, so he reckons he doesn't owe Selfridges any time.

Up on the first floor, he and Joyce rearrange boxes in the storage room to find some space for the
new arrivals. Job done, he collects the dolly, and makes his way back to the goods lift. He hears
the commotion at the cash desk before he sees it. A man and a woman giving Alice a dressing down
over something, he can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t quite work out what. Poor Alice, she
doesn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t deserve to be spoken to like that.

He stops to see what will happen, curious to know if Sylvia will intervene. She does. Sylvia tries
to remonstrate with the increasingly loud and increasingly irritated couple. Alice is now crying.
Well, that<span dir="rtl">'</span>s no good, making a grown woman cry. Sylvia is trying her best,
calm and quiet, but these two are not going to be placated - in fact the man is now waving his fist
at Sylvia.

Now, that won<span dir="rtl">'</span>t do. Not at all. Stan leaves his dolly and walks over to see
if he can be of any assistance - not that Sylvia can<span dir="rtl">'</span>t hold her own,
it<span dir="rtl">'</span>s just that he<span dir="rtl">'</span>s known this type before: weak,
brutish men, who enjoy intimidation and pushing people around.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>Can I help, Mrs. Markham?" Stan asks.

The man swivels, his face flushed and angry: <span dir="rtl">"</span>Who the hell do you think you
are?"

Stan ignores him. <span dir="rtl">"</span>That<span dir="rtl">'</span>s quite alright, Stan, I can
manage from here, thank you," says Sylvia, her voice wavering a bit.

<span dir="rtl">"</span>You sure?" Says Stan, addressing Sylvia and ignoring the man, "it looks like
your customer here is getting quite hot under the collar."

At this point, everything goes in slow motion. The man, who is a good six inches taller than Stan,
grabs him by his lapels and starts yelling and swearing at him. Before he knows what he's doing,
Stan lands a decent left hook on the customer's chin. The man staggers a bit and slumps on the
floor. For a couple of seconds there is silence. And then there is pandemonium, which is finally
sorted out when Jeff from Security and PC Marshall arrive on the scene.

Later on, sitting in Roy<span dir="rtl">'</span>s office, Stan tries to piece together what
happened. <span dir="rtl">"</span>I just didn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t like that customer being so
rude to Alice and Sylvia, and when he starting shaking his ugly fist at them...well I
wasn<span dir="rtl">'</span>t having it, Roy," he looks down at his bruised knuckles,
<span dir="rtl">"</span>he won<span dir="rtl">'</span>t be doing that again in a hurry, and no
mistake."

<span dir="rtl">"</span>I think you are right, Stan, I think you are quite right," replies Roy,
smiling at his friend.

<p style="text-align: center;">
â¦
</p>
